SOURCE: amundi/amundi_2023.pdf
PAGES: 25

--- PAGE 1 ---
INVESTMENT OUTLOOK | 2023
Some light for investors after the storm
Marketing communication
The views expressed in this document are those of the Global Investment Committee and
are subject to change at any time. These views should not be relied upon as investment
advice,assecuritiesrecommendations,orasanindicationoftradingintentonbehalfofany
ofAmundi’sstrategies.

--- PAGE 2 ---
IINNVVEESSTTMMEENNTT OOUUTTLLOOOOKK || 22002233
2023 KEY CONVICTIONS FROM CIOS
1. The Russia-Ukraine conflict is acting as an accelerator towards a regime shift, featuring higher inflation, geopolitical
uncertainty, and a tug of war between monetary and fiscal policy, in a world already flooded by debt. Expect economic
divergences tointensify.
2. The energy crisis will be the main economic driver in Europe, which will fall into recession. Fiscal measures may
mitigate this, but the moment of truth will be in Q4 2023, when gas inventories need to be restored. Gaining strategic
energy independence and signingnew commercialtieswillbe keyinatransformativeyear.
3. China’s economy could unveil positive surprises in 2023, depending on the outcome of the two main challenges:
housing market and Covid-19 policy. On the former, we see a stabilisation thanks to looser policy, on the latter a
gradual relaxation of restrictions.Geopoliticalpressureand an intensifyingUS-Chinaconfrontationarekeyrisks.
4. Central banks (CB) will do whatever it takes to fight inflation and avoid a 1970s-style crisis. The tightening cycle has
further to go, although at a slower pace than in 2022. Financial markets may have integrated the bulk of the future
hikes, but the level of the Federal Reserve’s (Fed) terminal rate will be critical: if close to 6%, a US recession will be
inthecardsand couldbe more severethanwhat isexpected today.
5. After the great repricing, market valuations are more appealing; this is the glass half full. While economic conditions
deteriorate and volatility remains elevated, markets will start pricing a Fed pivot between Q1 and Q2. Follow the
sequence: start with a cautious positioning, as the earnings outlook is weak, but prepare for entry points with a
gradual approach.
6. ‘Bonds are back’ remains an investor theme entering 2023, with a focus on high-quality credit, an active duration
stance, and currency management in a world of diverging policies. Pay attention to liquidity risk and corporate
leverage.
7. Equities, in our view, will offer entry points during the year. Start cautiously, favour US stocks and the
quality/value/high dividend tilt, but be ready to addEurope and China stocks, and alsocyclical and deep-value ones to
playthe rebound.
8. Emerging markets (EM) divergences will intensify in 2023. Selection will remain crucial. Look at countries where the
inflationand monetary outlooksappear morebenign and expect theFed pivot tosupport EMequities.
9. Long-term ESG themes were reinforced by the Covid-19 crisis and the Ukraine war. Investors should play the energy
transition and food security themes, accelerate the Net-zero path, and look for companies that can improve their ESG
profile,notably thanksto activeengagement.
10. The 60-40 allocation revival is in sight, as looming recession risks will mean the government bond diversification
engine will work again. Persistent inflation will call for greater allocation towards real assets and to sectors more
resilienttothe differentinflationsources.
“2023 will be a two-speed year, with plenty of
risks to watch out for. Bonds are back, market
valuations are getting more attractive, and a Fed
pivot in the first part of the year could trigger
Vincent MORTIER interesting entry points.” Matteo GERMANO
Group Chief Deputy Group Chief
Investment Officer Investment Officer
INDEX
2023 key convictions from CIOs 2 Inflationin portfolio construction 13
CONVICTIONS 3 ASSETCLASS VIEWS 14
2023global outlook faces steep challenges 4-5 DM equityand fixed income 15
Infographic: Themes to shape the 2023 main scenario;
6-7 Emergingmarkets 16
investing in 2023
HOTDEBATES 8 Infographic:ESG themes for 2023 17
Geopolitics in focus 9 DM and EM Currencies 18
Monetaryand fiscal policy mix 10 Commodities and Hedge Funds 19
Source: Amundi Institute as of 16 June 2022.
Central banks in focus 11 Private markets 20
China’s economic challenges 12 ECONOMICAND CENTRAL BANK FORECASTS 21-22
2 Marketing material for professional investors only

--- PAGE 3 ---
IINNVVEESSTTMMEENNTT OOUUTTLLOOOOKK || 22002233 INVESTMENT OUTLOOK | 2023
At end-September 2022, we
gathered in Paris to explore
key client themes and to
share portfolio allocation
ideas for 2023. This year’s
Amundi Investment Outlook
brings together the hot
debates and key investment
convictions discussed at
the inaugural Amundi
CONVICTIONS
Institute and Investment
Division seminar
Asset class preference calls for a Prevailing downside risks: risk of
barbell approach in 2023 excessive Fed tightening seen as top
risk for 2023
49%
% of voters indicating
47% 29% the risk as the most
28%
relevant for 2023
12%
5% 5%
Think EQUITYwill be Think CASHwill be
the best performer
the best performer
Excessive Global profit Global China Inflation
Fed recession slump / debt recession fears
tightening crisis in EMs dissipate /
triggers a no
recession stagflation
(US)
In equities, United States is the top Dollar is set to remain strong at least for
audience preference; China will likely the first half of the year, but possibly
come back in 2023 weaker later in 2023
US 52% H1 2023
in 0.85-0.95 range
China 15% For 46% of the audience
Europe 15%
EM 12% End-2023
EURUSD
>0.95
Japan 5% For 67% of the
audience
DatareferstopollstakenattheAmundiInstituteandInvestmentSeminaronasampleof50seniorportfoliomanagersandresearchspecialists.Dataisasof23
September2022.
33 MMaarrkkeettiinngg mmaatteerriiaall ffoorr pprrooffeessssiioonnaall iinnvveessttoorrss oonnllyy

--- PAGE 4 ---
IINNVVEESSTTMMEENNTT OOUUTTLLOOOOKK || 22002233
2023 GLOBAL OUTLOOK FACES STEEP CHALLENGES
Shallow recession in sight amid sticky inflation and global divergences
We expect global growth to slow significantly, with several countries across both
developedmarkets(DM)andEMsufferingstagnation,whileothersmayfaceaslowdownat
best. Globalgrowth shouldland ataround2.2% in 2023,down from 3.4%in2022, withDM
expectedtoslowto0.3%from2.6%,whileEMgrowthshouldslowto3.5%from4.0%.While
bothaggregatesshoulddecelerate,theEM-DMgrowthgapshouldfavourtheformer.While
the slowdown partly results from the increasingly coordinated withdrawal of policy
accommodation,regionalorcountry-specificfactorsaredrivingmixedtrends.Thedepthand
persistence of the stagflationary environment will depend on how the ideological, political,
economicandtechnologicaltransitionsareaddressed.
The main driver of European growth dynamics remains the energy shock, compounded by
unresolved post-Covid-19 supply-side inflationary pressures and resulting in double-digit
inflation.Thisisgeneratingacost-of-livingcrisis,whichweexpecttodragEuropeinto
recessionthiswinter,followedbyaslowrecovery.Notwithstandingtherecession,inflation
shouldremainsignificantlyabove targetup toend-2023. Exogenously, the outlookdepends
on energy prices, gas supply and storage issues, which may return in mid-2023, while the
key endogenous risk is for policy mistakes, both on the monetary and fiscal front. On the
othersideoftheAtlantic,theFedembarkedonanaggressivetighteningcycle,whichshould
push growth severely below potential in H2 2023, in order to rein in domestic inflationary
Monica DEFEND,
pressuresstemmingfromatightlabourmarketandstrongdomesticdemand.USrecession
risks for H2 2023 have increased due to the accelerating tightening path which should not Head of Amundi Institute
slow in the near term. We expect consumption and residential investment to slow, but be
partly offset bylower imports. Inflation should remain significantlyabove target at end-
2023,despiterentscoolingdownandhighinventorylevels.Theavoidanceofacreditevent
andpreservationoffinancialstabilityarekeytotheseprojections.
Thelowgrowth-highinflationbackdropshouldspreadevenlyacrosstheEMuniversewitha
“Regime shifts
few exceptions, the most relevant being China. While we cut China’s 2023 growth from
5.2% to 4.5%, it remains on an upward trend when compared to 2022’s anaemic underpin a new
growth at 3.2%. Housing market stabilisation and China’s gradual reopening are key
assumptions. Indeed, the global slowdown and the impact of early and bold monetary global disorder.”
tightening would be a drag on EM growth. Favourable 2022 nominal growth conditions
should revert in 2023, making fiscal support less affordable for many countries due to the
debt trajectory becoming less sustainable.While moderating inflation should allow a shift in
monetary policy stance, global financial conditions would warrant caution in EMCB easing.
On this new monetary policy path, there are countries with persistent and convincing
deflationary trends (e.g., Brazil) or countries where recession is close and deep, such as
CEEorrelativelysmallLatamcountries.
Amundi growth and inflation projections
Average GDP growth Inflation
10
5
9
4 8
7
3
% 6
,Y
o
2
%
,Y 5
Y o Y 4
1
3
0 2
1
-1
0
US Eurozone China DM EM World
2022 2023 2024 2022 2023 2024
Source:AmundiInstitute.Dataandforecastsareasof3November2022.
4 Marketing material for professional investors only

--- PAGE 5 ---
IINNVVEESSTTMMEENNTT OOUUTTLLOOOOKK || 22002233
Start defensive in asset allocation, but stand ready to The aforementioned headwinds should abate somewhat in
adjustthroughouttheyear the second half of 2023, favouring an improvement in the
business cycle and a switch from Correction to Late Cycle
The economicbackdropshould translate intoa continuation according to AIP. Another of Amundi Institute’s proprietary
of the current Correction phase in financial markets during models (Inflation Phazer) indeed signals a transition from
the first half of 2023, featuring a profit recession and high the Hyperinflationary regime which prevailed in 2022 – and
inflation. This is the most likely scenario according to the possibly also in Q1 2023 – to a more benign Inflationary
AmundiInstitute’sAdvancedInvestmentPhazer(AIP). regime, which has historically featured price pressures in
the 3-6% range. Although still above target, moderating
The first factor contributing to this outcome is the
pricepressuresshouldmitigatetheburdenoftherisingcost
macroeconomicoutlook.Growthshoulddecelerateacross
oflivingonconsumers,allowinganeconomicrecoveryfrom
DM,spanningfromsub-parlevelsintheUnitedStatesupto
the first-half lows and prompting the Fed to halt interest
recessions in the Eurozone and the United Kingdom. The
rateshikes.
exceptional spike in global inflation experienced over the
past18monthsshouldpersistinto2023–albeitataslowing Oneofthemostcrucialimplicationsoftheabovescenariois
pace – should take a toll on consumer spending and the dollar, which we expect to depreciate by 4.7% on a
sentiment.Atthesametime,itshouldkeepcentralbanksin trade-weighted basis in 2023. This should have positive
tightening mode in their effort to ease price pressures via spillover on EPS revisions amid a less challenging
cooler demand and prevent any unwanted loosening of macroeconomic environment for profits, which should
financialconditions. recover from H1 lows. From an asset allocation
standpoint, with the next move for on-hold monetary
The second factor shaping the 2023 business cycle
policy expected to be a cut yield curves should bull
stems directly from the first one: a profit recession is on
steepen and conditions be supportive for risky assets,
thecardsforQ1andQ2,withUSEPSforecasttocontract
withatilttowardsDMequityandhigh-qualitycredit.
by -10% and -15%, respectively, on a twelve-month trailing
basis. Earnings will be challenged by top-line deceleration When turning to the most relevant risks threatening the
causedbydollarstrengthandweaker nominalGDPgrowth. business cycle in 2023, the realised inflation pattern will be
Margins will also be under pressure due to increased costs at the forefront. If inflation fails to normalise to sustainable
acrosstheentirespectrum:production,capitalandlabour. levels, the macroeconomic scenario will turn into a more
severe stagflation, with the Fed forced to keep hiking
The resulting asset allocation for a Correction phase
despite the recession. Under such a scenario, risky assets
favours a defensive approach, with gold and IG credit
would face losses, amid severe market turmoil and liquidity
among the preferred asset classes. The hawkish Fed
stress. Monetary and fiscal policies will have to be mutually
narrative feeding through 2023 – and likely to persist up to
consistent,asrecenttheUKepisodehighlighted.
Q1 – will add upside risk to government bond yields in H1,
as a result of no clear Fed pivot yet and sticky inflation Alongside inflation, geopolitics will also remain crucial in
pressure. This will call for an active duration stance in shaping macroeconomic and financial trends over the next
government bonds which are the favoured component in a few quarters. As such, investors should focus on the
‘typical’correctionphase. evolution of the Russia-Ukraine war and the United States-
Chinarelationship.
Cautious portfolio allocation early in 2023; increase risk later in the year
Advanced Investment Phazer From a Correction to a Late Cycle allocation
100%
Moving from Correction to
90%
Late cycle in H2 2023 35% 46%
80%
y 70%
tilib
a 60%
%
,e
b r 13%
o r p 50% a h s
y o 23%
lr
e 40%
ilo 42%
tr
a u Q 30%
ftr
o P
20% 10%
10%
Correction Late cycle
0%
2021 H1 2021 H2 2022 H1 2022 H2 2023 H1 2023 H2 Cash Nominal gov.bonds IL bonds
Global credit Global equity Commodities
Reflation Recovery Late cycle Correction Contraction
Gold
Source: Amundi Institute, Bloomberg. Data is as of 31 October 2022. For Illustrative purposes only. Please refer to Advanced Investment Phazer: a guide to
dynamic asset allocationfor further information on Amundi’s AIP.
5 Marketing material for professional investors only

--- PAGE 6 ---
IINNVVEESSTTMMEENNTT OOUUTTLLOOOOKK || 22002233
THEMES TO SHAPE THE 2023 MAIN SCENARIO
Timing and shape of the global economic rebound
End 2022 Q1 2023 Q2 2023 Q3 2023 Q4 2023
US: Fed
pivot
15% probability
l a upside scenario
i A Fed pivot by end-Q1 with
t
n
terminal rate at 5.25% amid
e
t o tightening financial conditions
p
h
s r
e Europe:
and weakening job market
tv
i wo Energy Inflation falls back
l
s l i p crisis quickly and China’s 70% probability
es growth rebounds central scenario
m
l
ea
hb
to
l a l g China:
n 15% probability
o Growth
i downside scenario
g
e path Excessive Fed tightening or a
R
recession in Chinacould lead to
a deep recession Worsening energy crisis could
lead to a deep recession
CENTRAL AND ALTERNATIVE SCENARIOS
15% 70% 15%
DOWNSIDESCENARIO CENTRALSCENARIO UPSIDESCENARIO
Deep global slump Stagflationary episode, with rising Inflation falls back ending the
divergences and persistent inflation stagflationary episode
 Worsening / expanding Ukraine war.  Stalematein the Ukraine war.  Ceasefire in Ukraine.
 Russia partially resumes gasexports to
Europe.
 De-anchoredinflation expectations, CB  Inconsistent fiscal and monetary policy.  Fiscal discipline gradually restored.
over-react.  Fed ends tightening in Q1 2023, more
dovish stance in Q4 2023; BoE: soft
hiking cycle; ECBraises rates /
activates TPI; PBoCeasing.
 EU activates rescue plan todeal with
energy crisis.
 Global economic downturn (US, China,  Softeningenergy crisis in H2 2023.  Inflation falls back quickly.
Europe)/ renewed deflationary  Inflation: above CB target until 2024.  Lower uncertainty, extra savings and
pressures, inflation out of control /de-  Global nominal GDP growth trends renewed purchasing power fuel DM
anchored inflation expectations. higher with recession (EU), modest demand.
 Energy crisis backto acute in H2 2023. rebound (China), sub-par growth (US).
 Corporateprofit recession to go on in
H1 2023, followed by recovery.
 Global financial crisis, debt crisis with  Global financial conditions to  Returnof risk-on sentiment in the
several EM defaults. deteriorate amid continuationof the market
 Credit event. tightening cycle.
 Limited spread widening.
 Climate transition measures postponed.  Climate change adds to stagflationary  Climate change policy and energy
 Broad-based extremeclimate trends. transitionas top priorities
conditions.  Climaterisk hampers growth.
Source:AmundiInstituteasof28October2022.DM:developedmarkets.EM:emergingmarkets.CB:centralbanks.Fed:FederalReserve.BoE:Bankof
England.ECB:EuropeanCentralBank.PBoC:People’sBankofChina.QT:quantitativetightening.TPI:TransmissionProtectionInstrumentbytheECB.
66 MMaarrkkeettiinngg mmaatteerriiaall ffoorr pprrooffeessssiioonnaall iinnvveessttoorrss oonnllyy

--- PAGE 7 ---
INVESTMENT OUTLOOK | 2023 INVESTMENT OUTLOOK | 2023
INVESTING IN 2023: MORE APPEALING VALUATIONS
Valuation levels, historic percentiles since 1998
Most
expensive
historically
Most cheap
historically
EU IG US IG EM IG EU HY US HY EM HY EMSov EU EQ US EQ EM EQ
HC
Credit InvestmentGrade Credit High Yield EM Sov Equity
Nov-22 Dec-21
INVESTING IN 2023: FOLLOW THE SEQUENCE
End 2022 Q1 2023 Q2 2023 Q3 2023 Q4 2023
 Government bonds;
 Focus remains on high-  HY credit may start to
 IG credit;
Bonds are back quality credit; offer selective
O  Cautious in HY credit and selective in  Add EM bonds. opportunities.
IR EM HC bonds.
A
N  Deep-value equity
E  Caution overall;  Add global equity;
C Equity seeks entry opportunities,
S points  Play quality-value and high dividend;  Look for some selective cyclical, small caps
L  US equity vs. rest or the world. EM equities.
A and EM.
R
T 60-40 reloaded 60-40 paradigmis back in a decelerating economic environment, with focus still on inflation.
N
E
C Lookfor ESG improvers, accelerate on the net-zero path, play the energy transition and food security
ESG themes themes and, more broadly, climate change and socially-oriented strategies (agriculture, infrastructure,
transportation, healthcare).
E VS Downside   M Fa o v v o e u t r o c a a s v h e , r g y o c l a d u , t U io S u D s s a t n a d n c U e S i n T r r e is a k s y u a ri s e s s e a ts s ; hedges;
IT
A
O
IR
scenario
 Play minimum-volatility strategies.
NA
RN
EE Upside  Increase risky asset exposure, favour cyclical and value;
TC
LS scenario  Favour inflation-linkers and play inflation diversification.
A
Source:AmundiInstitute,Bloomberg,DataStream.Latestmonthlydataisasof14November2022.EUIG,USIG,EMIG,EUHY,USHY,EMHYareICEBofA
corporatebondindices.IG:investmentgrade.HY:highyield.EMSovHC:isJPMorganEMBIGlobalDiversified.EUEQ,USEQ,EMEQareMSCIindicesfor
equitymarkets.Allindicesrefertoaspecificregion(EU:Europe,US:UnitedStates,EM:emergingmarkets.Analysisisbasedonspreadsforbondindicesandon
twelve-monthforwardPEratioforequityindices.Valuationareinhistoricpercentilesince1998.Cheapestmeansisinthefirstquartile,Mostexpensiveisinthe
fourthquartile.
77 MMaarrkkeettiinngg mmaatteerriiaall ffoorr pprrooffeessssiioonnaall iinnvveessttoorrss oonnllyy

--- PAGE 8 ---
HOT DEBATES
Geopolitical risks investors should Policy mix will drive the path for US Treasury
watch for in 2023 yields in 2023
1 Where do you see ten-year Treasury yields at end-
2023?
51%
N.
37%
Ukraine-Russia war
10%
evolution
2%
0%
Below 2% 2% to 3.5% 3.5% to 5% 5% to 6% Above 6%
Key China themes to watch for in 2023 Inflation to remain a hot topic in 2023
Inflation >6%
10%
1
Zero-Covid-19 policy
Inflation in the
52%
2 Housing sector stabilisation and 4%-6% range
corporate exposure to housing
3 Country modernisation and reforms 38% I I n n f f l l a a t t i i o o n n < < 4 4 % %
DatareferstopollstakenattheAmundiInstituteandInvestmentseminaronasampleof40seniorportfoliomanagersandresearchspecialists.Dataisasof23
September2022,forecastforendof2023.
88 MMaarrkkeettiinngg mmaatteerriiaall ffoorr pprrooffeessssiioonnaall iinnvveessttoorrss oonnllyy

--- PAGE 9 ---
INVESTMENT OUTLOOK | 2023
GEOPOLITICS IN FOCUS
A difficult year ahead, with bright spots along the way
2023 will be a difficult year for Europe, but it will also be Coupled with a difficult economic environment, these
transformative. How the war in Ukraine progresses will pressures will undermine the United States’ commitment to
determine the depth of Europe’s recession, fiscal and Ukraine,againfeedingintoourwarbase-casescenario.
energy policy, the direction of domestic politics, as well as
The EUwill resist being dragged intothe United States’
Europe’sinternationalrelations.Conversely,themoodinthe
decouplingfromChina,aslongastheTaiwantensionsdo
Westwillalsoshapethenextphasesofthewar.
not lead to direct military confrontation. The economic
We identify six scenarios for how the war might evolve. A impact of the Russia-Ukraine war reduces appetite to
ceasefire – most likely in H2 – leading to an end of weaken ties with China. The need to expand renewables
hostilities is our base case at 35% likelihood. will be acute in 2023 and China is a major producer of
Nevertheless, risk is tilted to the downside, including a solarpanels.
25% likelihood for the war escalating into a direct
However, concerns about over reliance on China (e.g., rare
military confrontation between Russia and the West in
earth minerals) will see the bloc forge new trade ties.
Ukraine. This risk grows as Russia suffers more military
TradedealswithMexicoandChilearelikelyandMercosur
defeats.
is back on the agenda. An agreement with Australia and
The trajectory of our base case (ceasefire in H2 2023) New Zealand is in the making. EU-United Kingdom
depends on various conditions: both Russia and Ukraine relations may improve, while a likely trade deal between
would need to see their military capabilities weaken. For India and the United Kingdom will alleviate some Brexit
Ukraine,itwouldbebecauseWesternsupportwanes,while pains. Intra-EU relations will benefit from elections in
for Russia it would be because it has exhausted its military Poland, which are likely to usher in a pro-EU government,
toolboxandtakenenoughterritorytoclaim‘victory’.Ukraine whichwouldunfreezebillionsofEUfunds.
wouldlaydownarmsifofferedsufficientsecurityguarantees
ItisintimesofcrisesthattheEUgrowsmorepowerful.
bytheWest,whichthelatterwouldbecompelledtoprovide.
The pandemic and the war have seen the bloc take
These guarantees, coupled with Russia’s military losses,
unprecedented decisions on joint debt, sanctions,
could see an end to the war, not just a temporary ceasefire
defence and energy. There has also been progress
waitingtobebrokenonceRussiarearms.
towards achieving the EU’s green goals despite, and
The energy crisis will pose severe challenges. Prices because,ofthewar:2023shouldseemoreofthesame.
may remain high as supply is tight, but severe energy
shortages are not our base-case scenario, as demand Russia-Ukraine main war scenarios, non-exhaustive
will be reduced to offset the lack of Russian gas flows and
additional sources are likely to come online. A more
‘benign’ energyoutlook reduces policymakers’ appetite Ceasefire in H2 2023 leads
to end of war
for making difficult choices. Without an acute crisis,
Germany is unlikely to revisit its decision to shut the
remaining nuclear reactors in April. The Netherlands,
despitesittingonamplereservesintheGroningengasfield, Ongoing fighting for years
willsticktoitscommitmenttohaltproductionthere.Differing
attitudes to ‘saving’ energy will reduce appetite for energy
Direct confrontation with
sharingbetweencountries.Asaresult,Europeislikelyto
the West*
faceadeeperrecession.
We expect a new EU-wide fiscal support package to Power shift in Russia leads
alleviate the economic fallout. However, rising interest rates to end of war
and the recent UK market turmoil will make fiscal support
smallerandmoretargeted,asgovernmentsreturntofiscal
conservativism. The consequence will be more people
Ukraine 'wins'
sufferingtheeconomicimpactsofthewar.Thissupports
our base-case scenario of a ceasefire, as a shift in public
opinion against the war will push politicians towards
Russia 'wins'
persuadingUkrainetonegotiate.
0% 10% 20% 30% 40%
The war will also shape the EU’s foreign policy. The
Likelihood
Democrats’ uphill battle leading up to the 2024 election
will remind EU leaders about the perils of relying too Source: Amundi Institute as of 7 November 2022. *: e.g., after a tactical
much on the United States. Through 2023, the Biden nuclearattackbyRussiainUkraine.
administration will be busy with domestic political
battles,astheRepublicanswillbeamoredisruptiveforce.
Anna Rosenberg
Head of Geopolitics, Amundi Institute
9 Marketing material for professional investors only

--- PAGE 10 ---
INVESTMENT OUTLOOK | 2023
MONETARY AND FISCAL POLICY MIX
Too early for a European energy crisis plan; there will be pain before
action
With low or negative growth and high inflation, the The sums to be mobilised may exceed the borrowing
Eurozone is experiencing a stagflationary episode that capacity of some states. A Europe-wide approach would
is challenging economic policy. Rising prices are no reassure investors, as fragile states would benefit from
longerlimited to energyand wagesareexpected tooffset lower risk premiums. However, the conditions for setting
the loss of purchasing power, at least partially. The ECB up such a fund are not yet in place. Politically, the
intends to further normalise its monetary policy as its positions of heads of states remain divergent. A‘European
credibility is at stake. It is up to the ECB to anchor inflation solution’ would eventually be necessary to avoid a
expectations,astherecessionmaynotbesufficienttobring crisis, later in 2023. The ‘new’ fiscal rules need to provide
inflationbacktotarget. a sufficiently binding framework provide debt sustainability
reassurance. A move towards simpler (expenditure-based)
For their part, governments are actively using fiscal
fiscal rules is expected. However, the final framework will
policy to limit the recessionary impact of the energy
notbewritteninstonebeforemid-2023,astheStabilityand
crisis. The rise in energy prices has led them to implement
GrowthPactrulesaresuspendeduntilend-2023.AnewEU
a battery of measures to protect households and
programmewouldneedtocompensatefor thereturnof
businesses, such as reduction of energy tax or VAT,
fiscal rules.Finally, EUstates shouldwait for the endof
regulation of retail and wholesale prices, transfers to
monetarynormalisation – expected in Spring 2023 – and
vulnerable groups and taxes on windfall profits. Since the
a significant slowdown in inflation. Otherwise, the ECBmay
beginning of the year, over €500bn of measures have been
overreact, which would be counterproductive. New debt
announced in the Eurozone, accounting for some 4% of
issuance(evenifitisjointdebt)willonlybewellreceivedby
GDP).
investorsifthepolicymixisconsistent.
The resulting policy mix is ineffective in two ways.
In summary, in our central scenario we attach a high
Firstly, fiscal measures have not been the subject of
probability to the issuance of common debt. However,
any consultation among EU governments. The €200bn
preconditionswillprobablynotbemetbeforemid-2023.
German programme (worth 5.5% of GDP) was not well
The SURE (Support to mitigate Unemployment Risks in an
received by other EU members, particularly by countries
Emergency) programme set up in 2020 to avoid mass
that do not have the same budgetary means to cope with
unemploymentfollowingpandemiclockdownshasbeenwell
the energy crisis. In the end, the funds allocated so far this
received by investors. The economic results were very
year account for less than 1.0% of GDP (Belgium, Finland,
positive, and it could serve as a template. German leaders
Estonia, Slovenia, and Ireland), 2.3% in France, 3.5% in
havealreadyindicatedthattheyarenolongeropposedtoa
Italy, and 8% in Germany. If EU governments go down this
newEUjoint-debtprogramme,provideditisbasedonloans
road, the result will be increased economic and financial
(such as SURE) and not grants, a way of making
fragmentation, a harmful consequence for all Eurozone
governmentsfullyaccountablefortheirdebt.
countries. Secondly, because fiscal and monetary
policiesworkinoppositedirections.Fiscalmeasureswill Allocated funds in selected Eurozone countries, 2022
haveaninflationaryimpact,leadingtheECBtonormaliseits
monetary policy further. As a result, financial conditions are 8% 300
tightening at a time when governments need to take on
7%
moredebt. 250
T
go
h
v
e
er
r
n
e
m
ce
e
n
n
t
ts
U
.
K
Th
c
e
r
y
is
n
is
o
h
lo
a
n
s
ge
s
r
en
ha
t
v
a
e t
w
h
a
e
rn
s
i
a
n
m
g
e
s
r
i
o
g
o
n
m
al
f
t
o
o
r
6%
200 c
oll A
5% a
manoeuvre, particularly when CB intend to tighten policy at et
d
t u h m e br s e a lla m , e risk tim p e re . m W ium ith s o o u n t s t o h v e ere q i u g a n n d ti e ta b t t iv w e ou e ld as r i i n s g ein (Q lin E e ) P D G 4% Corporate 150 n uf
w
on
it
l
h
y
p
o
u
n
b
e
l
s
ic
co
d
n
e
c
b
e
ts
rn
a
e
n
d
d
.
peripheral countries are no longer the %
2
3
%
%
def
i
a
n fi
u
s n
l
t a
t
a
s
n b c
l
i
e
i l a i
a
t l y
d to
100 € , g
ni
d
b
Whatnext n
50
In our central scenario of a lasting energy crisis, there 1%
are two different scenarios on fiscal policy: either EU
0% 0
governments continue to act in an uncoordinated way, or
they set up a European fund (common debt) dedicated to
the energy crisis. The second scenario is the most likely,
for at least two reasons. Firstly, fiscal rules do not
provide an adequate framework to effectively deal with Share of GDP Allocated funding, RHS
thecurrentenergycrisis.Thechallengeofdiversifyingthe
Source:AmundiInstituteasof31October2022.
energy mix with no Russian gas is an EU-wide challenge
Didier Borowski
and requires a common response, as happened during the
Covid-19 crisis. Rising bond yields are preventing Head of Macro Policy Research, Deputy Head of Global
governmentsfromspendingunlimitedfunds. Macroeconomics, Amundi Institute
10 Marketing material for professional investors only

--- PAGE 11 ---
INVESTMENT OUTLOOK | 2023
CENTRAL BANKS IN FOCUS
Markets will watch out for any sign of a hawkish-to-dovish shift
Developed market central banks have hiked rates tightening will be considered too. Consequently, we have
aggressively in 2022 to tame inflation pressures, but cutourterminalratefrom2.75%to2.50%.
theyareunlikelytokeepthispacegoingin2023.
The message on potential QT was dovish as well, as the
The US Fed hiked its Fed Funds rates to 3.75-4.00% but topic was not discussed at the October meeting. PEPP
does not want markets to interpret a slower pace of rate reinvestments should remain flexible up to end-2024. Over
hikesgoingforwardasadovishpivot,inordertomakesure the next few quarters, the ECB balance sheet will shrink
thatfinancialconditionsdonoteasefurther(positivemarket thankstoTLTROrepaymentandscheduledmaturities.
reaction to October CPI data is a case in point).
The BoE also hiked rates aggressively, reaching 3.00% in
In light of the resilience of the US economy, the inflation
October,alongwithsomedovishcommunication.Itsforward
persistence and the Fed’s willingness to go into highly
guidance acknowledged the need to tighten more, but less
restrictive territory, we see a high probability of official
than the level implied by markets. We expect rates to peak
rates rising to a terminal policy rate of 5.25%, slightly
at4.50%.
abovewhatthemarketiscurrentlypricingin.
MovingtoJapan,thedollar-yenexchangerateweakenedto
HowFedhikesaffecttheUSeconomywillhingecriticallyon
150, a 32-year low, prompting the Ministry of Finance to
the terminal rate level.Wecompare the current level priced
intervene on the FX market to slow such depreciation.
in by the market (4.75/5%) against a 6.00% terminal rate
scenario. The economic implications for the stress-level Meanwhile, the Bank of Japan (BoJ) had to protect its
scenarioare:alonger-than-expectedUSrecession,ahigher yield-control targets by offering emergency Japanese
unemployment rate (above 5% in 2024) which will bring GovernmentBonds(JGB)purchases.
inflationbackto2%in2024.Regardingfinancialconditions,
weforeseeastrongerdollar,higherratesandacontinuation Theunprecedenteddollarstrengthandmonetarypolicygap
of the equity bear market, coupled with higher stress at a are exerting upward pressure on JGB yields, as a weaker
corporatelevel. yenfeedsintostrongerimportedinflation,drivingmarketsto
betthattheBoJwilleventuallyfollowupwithtightening.
The ECB hiked rates as well, with its deposit rate raised to
2.00% in late October. At this meeting, the ECB’s forward
We do not expect anychange in the foreseeable future,
guidance sounded dovish, suggesting a less aggressive
as the BoJ appears ready to buy time, waiting for US
path ahead. It highlighted how “substantial progress in
ratestopeak.
withdrawing monetary policy accommodation” has been
achieved and that lagged effects from monetary policy
US Fed Funds terminal rate will likely define the extent of economic pain
2023 outcome 2024 outcome
5,0 6
4,5
5
4,0
3,5 4
3,0
3
% 2,5 %
2 Corporate
2,0
defaults lead to
1,5 financial
1
instability
1,0
0
0,5
0,0 -1
4.75-5.00% 6.00% 4.75-5.00% 6.00%
Source:AmundiInstitute.Dataisasof24October2022.Inbothscenarios,oncereachedthepeakinMarch2023,theterminalrateisleftonholdwithnopivot.
11 Marketing material for professional investors only

--- PAGE 12 ---
INVESTMENT OUTLOOK | 2023
CHINA’S ECONOMIC CHALLENGES
2023 outlook hinges more on reopening than on housing
Reopening:patienceisavirtue Housing:nearlyoutofwoods
One of the main unsolved puzzles for markets in 2023 will The housing market is another major concern for investors.
be when will China reopen its economy, as this matters on From the peak in Q4 2020 to Q3 2022, new home sales
multiple levels, for China’s own growth, for regional trade, volumefell40%,wipingoutallgrowthfromthepreviousfive
and for global inflation. Over the past two years, hopes and years.Themonthlysalesvolumedroppedbacktomid-2015
disappointments have come and gone and market bets levels and government entities continued to step up their
have become more and more reliant on the reopening easing efforts. In a year, mortgage rates declined by 162bp
and 109bp, respectively, to 4.1% and 4.9%, for first and
outcome.
second home buyers. Now it takes on average 25 days for
The frustrating process itself reflects the unpredictable
an individual to gain a mortgage approval. Local purchase
nature of the reopening question. Predictions on the street
restrictionshavebeenrelaxedtocyclicallows.
arehighlyspeculative.Wehave alowconvictiononvarious
forecasts surrounding the zero-Covid-19 exit roadmap,
Signsofstabilisationareemerging.TheQ3PBoCsurvey
whichtheChinesegovernmentsaysdoesnotexist.
shows that the share of households planning to buy homes
Politicalwillingness is as much – if not more – relevant increasedforthefirsttimesincemid-2021.Newhomesales
than the ramping-up of domestic treatments or booster volume, after seasonal adjustments, increased for the
shots for the elderly. As Xi said himself, China puts its second consecutive month in September. Our trend
people and their lives above everything else. This is a high estimate indicates that the fall has slowed significantly.
bartoreach,consideringexistingmedicalresourcesandthe Meanwhile, high-frequency October data suggests the
virus’rapidevolution. housing market has become more resilient to lockdown
shocks, thanks to the continuous easing efforts from PBoC
Most argue that the vaccination rate is a precondition for
and the Ministry of Finance. This evidence points to a
reopening, but we caution whether a high vaccination rate
stabilisation of housing sales at end-2022. Hence, we
will be enough. Taking Singapore as an example, 92% of
hold the view that housing sales are near their cyclical
the population has completed a two-dose vaccine regimen
bottom. The transmission of housing policy easing has
and 79% received booster shots. Still, 0.24% of the fully
improved. In 2023, we expect housing sales to register a
vaccinatedwithboosterrequiredoxygensupplementationin
small gain and become less of a drag on GDP growth.
generalwards,inintensive-careunits(ICU),ordied.
Having said that, at a more structural level, a down-sized
This translates into at least 3.1mn ICU beds or wards with housing market will not resume being the effective (if not
ventilatorsinChina’scase.Thenumbercouldeasilyjumpto efficient)growthengineitusedtobeinthepast.
over 10mn considering the difference in vaccine efficacy.
However, China only has an estimated 60,000 ICU beds.
Even it can increase the number of beds significantly, there Residential housing floor space sold, monthly, mn sqm
will not be enough ICU nurses and doctors, who take a few
yearstotrain. 200
Even after China successfully boosts vaccinations for the
elderly or starts importing Western mRNA vaccines, we
need to be cautious, as a scenario featuring a significant
150
amount of deaths or strained hospitals is likely to stay. It
appears to us that it is not the death rate, but the death toll
that matters in the minds of China’s top leaders. This will m
q
have to change in future policy calculations, otherwise s
n
100
Chinaislikelytoenduponamissionimpossible. m
In 2023, the zero Covid-19 doctrine is likelyto stay. The
‘dynamic clearing’ or ‘dynamic zero-Covid-19’ is set as a
50 Sales set to return to their
guiding principal for Covid-19 prevention and control, which
long-term equilibrium in 2023
is unlikely to change before China can declare victory
~1.3tn sqm per annum
against Covid-19. That victory could be when the WHO
(2017-19 average 1.5tn)
announcestheendofthepandemic.
0
8 0 2 4 6 8 0 2 4 6 8 0 2
Despite the ongoing ‘dynamic clearing’ goal, we could 9 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 1 1 1 2 2
9 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
seeadjustmentsattheexecutionlevel.Weexpectthisto 1 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2
be a baseline scenario, i.e., disruptions without paralysing Residential housing floor space sold
the whole economy. This assumption underpins our growth Trend estimate
forecastforChina.
Source:AmundiInstitute,CEICasof31October2022.sqm:squaremeters.
The pace of recoveryis not great and much lower than
Claire Huang
pre-Covid-19levels,butarecessioncanbeavoided.
Senior EM Macro Strategist, Amundi Institute
12 Marketing material for professional investors only

--- PAGE 13 ---
INVESTMENT OUTLOOK | 2023
INFLATION IN PORTFOLIO CONSTRUCTION
How the “inflation-parity” approach could benefit investors
For decades investors have not focused on aspects related As such, the ‘inflation parity’ concept allows these
to inflation, as this was not on their radar. Unfortunately, differencesintheassetallocationtobefactoredin.
2022 put this topic back in the spotlight and we believe this In 2022, returns gyration in several market segments (e.g.,
will remain relevant in 2023 despite the expected slowdown sectors) occurred when inflation pressures shifted from
ininflation. cyclical to services and labour. Services inflation forced CB
to act aggressively, generating a less market friendly
There are four key themes that investors should consider
environment, where risky assets suffered significantly and
whenassessingtheimpactofinflationdynamicsonportfolio
traditional safe havens did not work properly. As we expect
construction:
servicesandotherpersistentinflationcomponentstopersist
1. Inflation is more persistent and unpredictable than in2023,amorebalancedanddiversifiedportfolioshouldbe
growth:inflationdynamicsarelessregularthangrowth among the primary focuses of 2023 asset allocation. The
ones,withswingsandshiftsprovingmorepersistent; inflationparityconceptprinciplesare:
2. Inflation is multi-faceted: different forces can
1. A thematic asset allocation based on asset class
generate inflation and, by nature, they can have
correlations toallinflationsources.
different impacts in terms of persistency in the swings,
2. The allocation gives the same importance to the four
preventinglinearmeanreversion.
inflation sources (parity concept) balancing the
3. Inflation is driven by both endogenous and
traditionalcyclicaltiltwithlessgrowth-friendlyonessuch
exogenous forces, meaning that some are originated
as services, food and energy. This results in a less
internally in the economic system, while others are
concentrated allocation that helps mitigate
external, e.g., due to a shock (positive or negative) in
macroeconomicrisks.
theeconomicsystem.
3. Sensitivities to inflation sources are dispersed
4. Central banks are more effective in addressing
withinassetclassesand,specificallyinequities,ata
endogenous forces and less effective in absorbing
sector level (as some of them are directly impacted,
external shocks; often, rather than absorbing shocks,
including energy, staples and materials), at the regional
they tend to exacerbate and amplify them in the
level (given different sector composition), and at the
economicsystem.
factor level (e.g., preference for value in demand
There are four important inflation sources to consider: inflation and for quality in less-market friendly
cyclical (demand driven), services, energy and food. They environmentsduetoitspricingpowercapacity).
originate from different factors and respond to different 4. Infrastructure–andrealassetsingeneral–aregood
forces. Some reflect economic demand recovery (cyclical), inflation diversifiers as they exhibit stable correlation
others often lead to a recession (e.g., services) due to dynamicsamidrisinginflation.
aggressive CB response, while others (e.g., food and 5. In inflationary times, calibrating weights according to
energy)mayendupinstagflation.Notsurprisingly,different an equal-weight approach based around assets’
inflation sources and CB responses also result in different correlation to the various inflation sources can help
asset class behaviour, due to varying sensitivity to these generateextraperformance.
fourinflationarysources.
Lorenzo Portelli
Head of Cross Asset Strategy, Amundi Institute
Different sources of inflation Asset class correlation to different inflation
25% 50% sources
% ,A 1 2 5 0 % % 3 4 0 0 % % n o m 6 - A cl s a s s e s t IG* HY* EMBI*Equity Gold l I i n n f k l. * Cash C C o yc m l. . I E n q fr . .
M ht
Y o Y
h
1
5
0
%
%
1
2
0
0
%
%
M
Y o Y Cyclical 17.0% 13.5% 0.0% 5.3% 17.
-
7% 16.6% -10.7% 8.5% -13.3%
tn
o m 0% 0% % ,
A
Service
-41.9%-47.2%-21.7%-41.3%
12.5%
-13.8% 56.3% -6.0% -2.9%
6- of
-5% -10%e r Energy 7.0% 19.5% 28.8% 18.6% 27.8% 53.1% 25.9% 58.5% 24.0%
n
e
-10% -20%g r
-60.8%-52.7%-47.4%-32.6% 18.8%-17.4% 50.1% -18.1% -6.2%
8147036925814703692 y Food
6777888899900011112
9999999999900000000
1111111111122222222
Correlation analysis is run from April 1999 to December 2021.
Services less energy services Food Cyclical (commodities ex food and energy) Energy, RHS
Source: Amundi Institute, Bloomberg. Data is as of 30 September 2022. *FI risk premium vs. US government bonds. Please refer to Resilient multi-asset
portfoliosinaninflationaryregimeforfurtherinformationonAmundi’sInflationPhazer.
13 Marketing material for professional investors only

--- PAGE 14 ---
ASSET CLASS VIEWS
Asset class Current Outlook for H1 2023
stance
UnitedStates =/+ =/+ Stable
US value + + Stable
M
R
O US growth - -/= Improving
F
T
A
L Europe - =/+ Improving
P
Y
T Japan = = Stable
IU
Q
E China = =/+ Improving
Emerging markets = =/+ Improving
ex-China
US govies =/+ + Improving
US IG corporate =/+ + Improving
M US HY corporate - -/= Improving
R
O F European govies = =/+ Improving
T (core)
A
L P European govies -/= =/+ Improving
E (peripherals)
M
O Euro IG corporate = =/+ Improving
C
N
I
D
Euro HY corporate - -/= Improving
E
X IF China govies =/+ =/+ Stable
EM bonds HC =/+ + Improving
EM bonds LC = =/+ Improving
R Commodities =/+ =/+ Stable
E
H
T O Currencies (USD vs. + = Deteriorating
G10)
-- - = + ++
Source: Amundi as of 16 November 2022.
Negative Neutral Positive
1144 MMaarrkkeettiinngg mmaatteerriiaall ffoorr pprrooffeessssiioonnaall iinnvveessttoorrss oonnllyy

--- PAGE 15 ---
INVESTMENT OUTLOOK | 2023
DEVELOPED MARKET EQUITIES
Cautious stance confirmed; bottom might materialise in mid-2023
2022hasbeenabear-marketyear,mainlydrivenbyasharp S&P 500 and three-month/ten-year Treasury spread
fall in price-earnings (PE) ratios. Earnings downgrades
eventuallystarted,mainlydrivenbymargincompression.As
S&P 500 bottom UST 3m-10y bottom
such, caution is still needed, but a bottom in 2023 12
should lead to a radical reversal of positions. Two
3200
conditions are needed: primarily, the Fed has to shift its 10
focusfromtoomuchinflationtonotenoughgrowth;equities
cyclically bottom out during bull steepening, not flattening. 1600 8
Secondly, the process of earnings revisions has to be more 3
e m
advanced. Often, it leads to a volatility spike of HYspreads la c 800 6 1-
a
O
n
n
d
r
o
e
u
g
t
i
f
o
lo
n
w
s
s
,
.
the shift to profit downgrades makes the case
s
g
o l ,0 400 4 e r p s
y 0
for the United States over Eurozone for now but non-US 0 a
5 2 d
equityis expected to outperform later in the recoverystage. P & 200 % ,
On styles, quality value is a core position, but should S 0
eventuallyleavethefloortodeepvalue.Highdividendsand
lowvolatilityarecomplementarybutwillhavetobereplaced 100 -2
by small caps and high beta later on. On sectors,
defensives should continue to outperform a while but, 50 -4
looking into granularity, some quality cyclicals are already 925814703692581470
677788899990001112
worthconsidering. 999999999990000000
111111111112222222
Recession S&P500
 Markettriggers:risingratesandprofitdowngrades.
UST 3m-10y spread, RHS 0, RHS
 Towatch:credibleFedpivot,volatilityspike.
Source:Amundi Institute, Refinitiv.Dataisas of 18 October 2022.HY: high
 Risks: geopolitics, deeper- and longer-than-anticipated
yield.
recession.
DEVELOPED MARKET FIXED INCOME
CB to set the course for credibility, anchoring inflation expectations
In a deteriorating growth environment, CB will move away
Market-implied path for Fed Funds rate target
frompeak monetarysynchronisation. Thetrade-offbetween
5
inflation and financial stability will increase. However, CB
will only be credible when implementing dovish surprises if
inflation rates progress satisfactorily towards targets.
Otherwise, a more accommodative tone is likely to be
4
accompanied by increased pressure on currencies and
inflation expectations. We expect the Fed to pause at
5.25%in March 2023, supported by core inflation being on
a downward trend and by cooling labour market conditions.
3
Risks remain for an upward revision of terminal rates given
the resilience of the US economy and the persistence of
inflation.TheFeddovishpivotwillreducepressureonother %
G10 CB. However, persistent inflation driven by energy
2
priceswillremainakeydeterminant.
Amundi expectation of Fed
In the coming months, the short end of the US yield curve Funds terminal rate:
should remain under pressure. At some point in 2023, the 5.25% in March 2023
deterioration in growth prospects will put downward 1
pressureonlong-termrates.IntheEurozone,theimpactof
the new supply of government debt should be monitored
closely.Weexpectcreditspreadstowidenanddefaultrates
to rise moderately. We favour IG over HY with no main 0
regionalrelativepreferences. m m m y m m m y y
3 6 9 1 5 8 1 2 3
1 1 2
 Market triggers: inflation peak, Fed pivot, European
fiscalpolicy. May-22 Nov-22
 Towatch:inflation,labourmarket,energyprices. Source:AmundiInstitute,Bloomberg.Dataisasof14November2022.
 Risks:USrecession,persistentenergycrisisinEurope.
15 Marketing material for professional investors only

--- PAGE 16 ---
INVESTMENT OUTLOOK | 2023
EMERGING MARKETS
Stabilising global conditions will likely improve sentiment in EM assets
As we head into 2023, the EM domestic macroeconomic EM sovereign spreads: possible tightening ahead with
backdrop is expected to show subdued growth – even the Fed pivot
recession in several cases – and relatively high, albeit
moderating, headline inflation. Such a scenario, which is 12-month
1200 target
unfavourableforriskyassets, willjoinforceswithtightening
global financial conditions, triggering a late-cycle bear
1000
market, with widening EM spreads and likely higher EM
900
localbondyieldsintheveryshortterm.
p 800
The aforementioned gloomy backdrop should result in b
already stretched sovereign balance sheets sinking under
,d
a
e 600
the weightofpoornegotiationoutcomesbetweensovereign r p 510
debtorsandtheirmaincreditors(theCommonFrameworkis S
barely proceeding). The pandemic, the energy and food 400
price shocks, and rising interest rates have pushed many
200
countries onto an unsustainable debt path, especially low- 200
incomecountries.TheEMBIdiversifiedspreadhaswidened
to levels not seen since the 2008 Great Financial Crisis
0
(GFC) and the 2020 Covid-19 crisis. Geopolitical tensions 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2
0 0 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 2 2 2
have been showing up in high market volatility and are 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2
adding to risk premium. Against this backdrop, IG spreads
EMBI IG EMBI HY EMBI Sov
have widened much less than HY ones. For 2023, we
foresee narrowing EMBI spreads (bysome 50bp), driven
Source: Amundi Institute, Bloomberg. Data is as of 11 November 2022.
mostly by the HY segment on the back of a favourable
RussiahasbeenexcludedfromallofJPMorgan'sfixedincomeindiceson
EM-DM GDP growth gap (for the former) and stabilising March31,rebalancingallindices.EM:emergingmarkets.CEEMEA:Central
financialconditionsthankstomoderatinginflation. EasternEurope,MiddleEast,andAfrica.
the asset class’s total return, especially commodity
Overthecourseof2023,EMLCbonds(GBI)shouldbenefit
currencies, even though volatility should remain elevated.
from falling yields, resulting in a positive total-return
Overall in 2023, equity returns are expected to be
performance. GBI yields have surprised to the upside for
marginally positive. In the short term, the macro financial
most of 2022 and still, in the very short term, the adverse
backdrop suggests a preference for quality and profitability,
backdropisnotfullypricedinorcouldunveilfurtheradverse
mainlyLatamandqualityinEMAsia,suchasIndonesia.As
surprises (e.g., GEM monetary policy tightening not over
we move into the second half of 2023, we expect equity
yet, US yields rising further, weak EM FX). However, EM
performance to improve – though below its historical
inflation seems to have peaked in late 2022 (in GBI-
average – suggesting a shift in valuation styles (EMEA and
weighted terms) and real yields have been bottoming out.
EM Asia, focus on themes and countries linked to
As such, over a three-to-six-month horizon, nominal
technology, such as Korea). Following the strong recovery
yields should be lower. A more cautious stance is
in YoY earnings growth experienced in H1 2022, YoY
warranted on EM Asian rates, where CB started hiking
earnings are now slightly negative. We expect GEM
later and will finish later and FX reserves positioning has
earningstorecoverin2023,mostlyinthesecondhalfof
worsened due to dollar strength and rising US rates. In
the year.SuchamoveshouldbedrivenbyEMAsia,which
areas where the monetary policy cycle is more mature,
islessaffectedbyanybaseeffects.
inflation should decline earlier and more persistently and
brighter growth conditions should return in H2 2023. Here,  Markettriggers:globaleconomicandprofitslowdown.
we have moderately positive views on EMEA and Latam.  Towatch:inflationpeak(Latamfirst)andnextFedpivot.
EM currencies appear undervalued and should provide a  Risks: geopolitics and policy mistakes leading to a
slightly positive contribution – in GBI-weighted terms – to recession.
Key EM convictions
Challenging macro-financial backdrop should evolve gradually into a more constructive environment.
The geopolitical backdrop is heightening fragmentation; different alliances to watch.
Caution in the short term. Constructive on HC even though we see less upside than previously expected (watch
forcatalystsofliquiditywithdrawalexacerbatingdistressedsituations,notsystemicones).
Stabilising global macro-financial backdrop should put EM asset classes under the spotlight. On local currency
duration, some Latam and CEEMEA countries still offer attractive valuations. EM equity and FX allocation to
increaseonamorefavourablebackdrop.EquityvaluationsmoreattractivethanFX.
16 Marketing material for professional investors only

--- PAGE 17 ---
INVESTMENT OUTLOOK | 2023 INVESTMENT OUTLOOK | 2023
ESG THEMES FOR 2023
1 2
Top-down view from macro / Cyclical view and its ESG impact
geopolitical / regulation
From a top-down standpoint, key themes  A decelerating economy with high
are: inflation tends to favour ESG with a
best-in-class approach, to avoid the
 Energy transition (reinforced after the
exclusion of sectors that could benefit
crisis), with opportunities in both equities
frominflation.
andgreenbonds.
 Social themes may be back infocus, as
 Food securityacrossassetclasses;
the deteriorating labour market and
 Infrastructure in focus to support the
ongoing high inflation will call for more
energy transition and the geopolitical re-
attentiontowards social well-being.
shoringtrend.
3 4
Deep dive into key E, S and G
Net zero impact
subthemes
 Search for improvement in E, S andG;  Commitment towards net zero will be
look for key material factors on the E, S, crucial in 2023, as investors will need to
and G pillars within each sector, where acceleratethis effort.
improvements could lead to value
repricing.
Source: Amundi as of 26 October 2022.
1177 MMaarrkkeettiinngg mmaatteerriiaall ffoorr pprrooffeessssiioonnaall iinnvveessttoorrss oonnllyy

--- PAGE 18 ---
INVESTMENT OUTLOOK | 2023
DEVELOPED MARKETS CURRENCIES
USD: from a lack of positive catalysts to excessive valuation
The USD is becoming vulnerable to pullbacks, as it is
G10 FX valuations
expensive compared to historical standards and the Fed’s
tightening cycle is entering its mature stage. Yet, with Current
Policy Sensitivity Terms of Reaction
inflation remaining the Fed’s top priority and the economic Exchange valuat.
rate to lower trade to credible
slowdownpossiblyextendingglobally,thingsmaygetworse rates vs. fair forecast growth improv. Fed pivot
value
before improving. The greenback is the only high-yielding
currency with safe-haven features and, given the structural NOK
shocks elsewhere (Eurozone, United Kingdom, and Japan),
we see no credible catalysts for a proper mean AUD
reversiontowardsfairvaluation.
CAD
With no sharp fall in US inflation, we expect the USD to
USD
prove strong in the short run and see inflection points
aroundtheendoftheFed’stighteningcycle.TheFedwillbe NZD
keyin defining relative winners and losers.With no credible
pivotexpectedin2023,JPYandCHFcouldbesafespotsto CHF
start reducing USD exposure, while riskier positions may
GBP
come through at a later stage. Yet financial instability can
quickly turn into a dominant market mover, given the thin SEK
level of USD reserves across international players. Any
attempt by the Fed or the US Treasury to mitigate the EUR
burden (by pumping liquidity into the system) would be a
JPY
clear-cuttriggerforabroaderUSDsell-off.
 Market triggers: global economic slowdown, tightening Source:AmundiInstituteasof7November2022.Forillustrativepurposes
Fed. only on historical currency response to selected factors. Dark green/red
reflect high positive/negative sensitivity to the related factors and/or
 Towatch:inflationandglobalgrowthdynamics.
under/overvaluation.Lightgreen/redreflectlimitedpositive/negativereaction
 Risks: financial instability, inconsistent policy mix, and/orunder/overvaluation.
geopoliticaltensions.
EMERGING MARKETS CURRENCIES
EM central banks are in no rush to ease
Acting as the most powerful shock absorber across EM EM FX outlook
asset classes, EMFX have been showing oversold signals.
With the USD expected to depreciate mildly and based on -20% Cheap
COP
attractive valuations, the outlook is supportive for the ZAR KRW
assetclassin2023.Moderatinginflationaccompaniedbya CLP MYR CNY
-10% THB TWD
prudent monetary policy shift(starting with the most mature IDR PEN
hikingcycles)willresultinneutral/positiverealrates,which PLN ILS BRL PHP
aremoreappealingthantheextremelynegativelevelsseen n 0% I
i
t
n
he
th
E
e
M
rec
C
e
B
nt
s
p
ta
a
n
s
c
t.
e
O
(
n
vis
th
-a
e
-v
o
is
the
in
r
fl
h
a
a
ti
n
o
d
n
,
a
a
n
p
d
re
th
m
e
at
F
u
e
re
d)
sh
c
i
o
ft
ul
i
d
n o z ir
o HUF
RON RUB
h CZK
trigger some underperformance due to existing m 10% MXN
vulnerabilities,ashighlightedbytwin-deficitpositions. 2 1
ta
While we do expect volatility to be high, supportive n 20%
o Bubble size:
elementscantranslateintopositiveperformanceforthe ita
Risk-adjusted
mostundervaluedcurrencies,startingwithLatam,when u
la 30%
the leading tightening cycle will finally result in slowing v
inflation.Investorsshouldcloselymonitorthepaceofeasing r e
d
on the back of moderating inflation in order to avoid ending n u 40% Rich
upinrealrateswhichmayturnouttobelessattractivethan /r
e TRY
expected. v O
50%
  M To ar w k a e t t c t h ri : g i g n e fla rs ti : o g n lo p b e a a l k e a c n o d no n m ex ic tF a e n d d p p i r v o o fi t t . recession. More -1,5 -1,0 -0,5 0,0 0 L ,5 ess 1,0
vulnerable External vulnerability Index vulnerable
 Risks: geopolitics and policy mistakes leading to a
recession.
Source:AmundiInstitute.Dataisasof2November2022.
18 Marketing material for professional investors only

--- PAGE 19 ---
INVESTMENT OUTLOOK | 2023
COMMODITIES
Tight oil markets, gold mean reversion
While oil prices may remain capped by slowing growth in
Gold around the Fed pivots
early 2023, supply issues could return to the fore. Tight
OPEC+ production and spare capacity, the EU ban on 108
Russian crude, low oil stocks and rebuilding US strategic
reserves could lead to supply scarcity. Brent prices could
trade around $95/barrell on average, with upside risks 106
in late-2023. Given US producers’ improving financial
health, US output could matter again. Refiled storage and
EU solidarity efforts suggest hard gas rationing will not be
104
necessarythiswinter.Yet,withnoquickfixestoreplacelost e
c
Russian supply, curbing demand will be required, keeping ir
p
gas prices high until late 2023 (€100-150Mwh on average). d
e 102
Base metals could be pressured in H1, due to their s
a
cyclicality. In H2, a moderating dollar and rising b e
R
productioncostscouldhelparally.Longer-runprospects
remain promising. Supply may struggle to meet demand 100
fromtheenergytransition,whichcouldaccelerateintheEU.
When nearing the Fed pivot, focus should turn on slowing
growth. Gold would be in demand, with valuation and 98
positioningprovidingattractiveentrypoints.
 Market triggers: investors looking through the
96
recession.
-270 -180 -90 0 90 180 270 360
 Towatch:ratepeak,coreinflationtrends.
 Risks: Chinese property markets, US oil production up. Days around Fed pivot
Source:AmundiInstitute,Comex.Dataisasof2November2022.Datastarts
from1January1967andisrebasedto100.Goldpriceisrebasedto100=Fed
pivotdatesince1965.
HEDGE FUNDS
Intensifying search for alpha
Hedge funds’ appeal is likely to persist in 2023. The
Hedge fund strategies outlook
multi-year bond bull market has likely ended, making - N +
diversification more challenging. Given their low volatility,
market beta and sensitivity to duration, hedge funds are L/S equity Directional
attractive. For 2023, the table on the right gives an
overview oftheoutlookfordifferentstrategies.Besides,
Market neutral
higher short-term yields provide a growing return
contribution for hedge-funds, which are long cash. Rising Event-driven Merger arbitrage
geopolitical risks, peaking globalisation, the energy
Special situations
transition, ballooning sovereign debt, and ageing population
would all contribute to above-par inflation, sub-par growth, FI arbitrage L/S US credit
shortereconomiccycles,andabove-parassetvolatility.
L/S EU credit
Thus,amidmildertraditionalassets’returns,thesearchfor
alphawouldintensify.Forseveralyears,alphageneration L/S EM credit
was eroded by a series of atypical shocks, including the
RelativeFI arbitrage
trade war, Brexit, the pandemic, supply-chain disruptions,
and anomalies from massive stimulus. We expect some of Global macro Discretionary
thesehurdlesto lift.Shrinkinggloballiquidity wouldresult in
Multi-strategy
greater asset dispersion, sharper valuation discrimination,
more fundamental pricing, and more room for thematic
CTAs
trading,whichwouldbodewellforalpha.
 Markettriggers:continuedliquiditytighteningandasset 3m stance 6m trend
valuationsreset.
 Towatch:ratepeak,corporateactivity.
 Risks:fastmarketrally,another‘atypical’shock. Source:AmundiInstitute.Dataisasof2November2022.
19 Marketing material for professional investors only

--- PAGE 20 ---
INVESTMENT OUTLOOK | 2023
PRIVATE MARKETS
Shields against inflation and low growth
The current environment of rising rates, decelerating global The lower lending activity from banks also affects the
growth and ongoing sustained inflation will continue to put private equity space where transaction volumes and
corporate earnings under pressure, potentially leading to pricing are slowing, a trend that we expect will continue for
further market adjustments across the board. Against this some time. In fact, the slowdown is mainly due to the
backdrop,investorsshouldconsiderprivatemarketstoseek difficulty in finding financing from banks. Despite this,
exposure to assets that appear more resilient in this phase sectors such as healthcare and technology have trading
(i.e., infrastructure), while also starting to look for longer levels only marginally lower than those that existed before
termopportunitieswithaveryselectiveapproachgiven the crisis. Thesecompanies are experiencingstronggrowth
the likely increased dispersion of returns within each trends and usually protect from higher inflation due to
assetclass.Indeed,thereisnosuchthingasonesingle pricingpower. Despitedecliningpricesandalackoftrading
privateassetsmarket. across many sectors, we believe that over the next five
years–thetypicalinvestmentperiodofaprivateequityfund
Infrastructure investment can provide a shield as well as – private equity markets will start to offer some selective
enhance portfolio diversification. Strong volume growth, as entrypointsforinvestorswithanappropriatetimehorizon.
wellasstablepricingisveryevident,whilethereareseveral
growth trends that will support this area of investing in the Real estate, another good diversifier within a portfolio,
yearaheadandbeyond.Forinstance,decarbonisationisa should profit from both indexed rents and resilience in the
key focus of governments, but private capital is needed to demand for the best buildings in terms of location and
complement public funding. Massive new investments are energyperformance. However, globally this benefit maynot
required, not only in building solar plants and wind farms, besufficienttooffsettheimpactofexpectedyieldincreases,
but in the digitalisation of networks as they adapt to new at least in the first months of 2023. For new investments in
types of power generation. Furthermore, for EU leaders to existing buildings, revised valuations nevertheless create
achieve energy independence from Russia and fossil opportunities.
fuels, substantial new infrastructure investment will be
required. The deconsolidation of assets by corporates Tosummarise,thebuy-and-holdnatureofinvestinginthese
and governments is also a key growth driver. As soon as asset classes, and their ability to absorb or pass on cost
such an asset enters the market, value can be created increases means that they can provide protection against
through strategies such as management optimisation or inflation and low growth. Furthermore, they offer
contract renegotiation. Turning to inflation, infrastructure opportunities to find yield and access returns, although
exposure can protect against it by generating indexed cash selectively. We believe they will play an increasingly
flows: for example, long-term contracts awarded by important role for investors who are looking for attractive
regulators to toll road operators often contain clauses for realreturns.
adjusting tolls, so as to link the company’s revenue to
inflation. In addition, for some companies a link with energy
prices can provide a shield, as those prices are a large Real assets outlook for 2023 and beyond
componentofinflation.
Private Private Real
Infrastruc.
With regard to private debt, this asset class has equity debt estate
experienced some repricing, as spreads have widened, but
it also continues to benefit from fundamentals remaining Outlook for ++ -/= + -/=
strong.Currently,theprivatedebtmarket’sliquiditypremium 2023
is low compared to listed corporate debt, but we are very
confident that it will increase again.When there has been a
Entry
largemoveinthelistedmarket,aswehaveseenrecently,it
opportunities = + + +
takes times for private debt valuation levels to adjust.
over the next
Overall, current valuations offer an attractive entry point for
five years
investors with medium to long-term investment horizons.
Furthermore, private debt is typically structured around
floating-rate notes, offering protection against rising rates Potential for
and inflation. As interest rates rise, the corporate debt inflation ++ = ++ +
burdencanbeheavy, butdirectlending fundsoften request protection
corporates to hedge their interest rate risk. Looking ahead,
these funds should benefit from strong bargaining power in
negotiating lending contracts, as bank-financing remains Diversification +++ + + ++
benefit
constrained. In fact, banks are less active in the lending
space, due to a notable amount of leveraged loans on their
balance sheets that have declined in value, making the Source: Amundi Real Assets qualitative assessment as of 8 November
banksreluctanttosellthem. 2022. Infrastruc. = Infrastructure. For illustrative purposes only, on a
scalerangingfrom---to+++.
20 Marketing material for professional investors only

--- PAGE 21 ---
INVESTMENT OUTLOOK | 2023
MACROECONOMIC FORECASTS
Macroeconomic forecasts as of 3 November 2022
Real GDP growth,YoY, % Inflation (CPI,YoY, %)
Annual averages, %
2022 2023 2024 2022 2023 2024
UnitedStates 1.9 0.8 0.6 8.1 4.1 2.3
Japan 1.6 0.5 1.2 2.3 1.3 0.4
Eurozone 3.2 -0.7 1.1 8.7 7.5 3.2
Germany 1.7 -0.7 1.1 9.0 7.6 3.1
France 2.5 0.0 1.0 6.1 5.3 3.0
Italy 3.7 -0.4 0.8 8.9 8.1 3.2
Spain 4.5 0.3 1.3 8.6 4.3 3.4
United Kingdom 4.4 -0.6 1.1 9.1 7.7 3.8
Brazil 3.1 0.9 1.6 9.3 4.3 4.1
Mexico 2.6 0.7 0.6 8.0 5.8 4.2
Russia -3.3 -1.5 2.0 13.9 7.5 4.5
China 3.2 4.5 4.3 2.1 2.3 2.1
India 7.3 5.6 6.0 6.9 6.3 6.0
Indonesia 5.3 4.8 4.7 4.3 5.0 4.1
South Africa 1.7 1.2 1.5 6.8 5.6 4.8
Turkey 5.3 3.1 4.4 73.1 53.7 24.1
Developed countries 2.6 0.3 1.0 7.6 5.1 2.5
Emerging countries 4.0 3.5 3.9 8.8 6.9 4.8
World 3.4 2.2 2.7 8.3 6.2 3.9
Central bank official rates forecasts, %
4 November 2022 Amundi +6m. Consensus +6m. Amundi+12m Consensus +12m.
UnitedStates* 4.00 5.00 5.10 5.25 5.00
Eurozone** 1.50 2.50 2.80 2.50 3.00
Japan -0.10 -0.10 0.02 -0.10 0.09
UnitedKingdom 3.00 4.50 4.50 4.50 4.50
China*** 3.65 3.65 3.65 3.65 3.65
India 5.90 6.15 6.20 6.15 6.15
Brazil 13.75 12.25 13.10 10.00 10.80
Russia 7.50 7.00 7.00 6.50 6.75
Source: Amundi Institute. Forecasts are as of 4 November 2022. CPI: consumer price index. *: Upper Fed Funds target range. **: Deposit rate. ***: One-year loan
prime rate.
21 Marketing material for professional investors only

--- PAGE 22 ---
INVESTMENT OUTLOOK | 2023
FINANCIAL MARKET FORECASTS
Bond yields
Two-year bond yield forecasts, %
11 November 2022 Amundi +6m. Forward +6m. Amundi+12m. Forward+12m.
UnitedStates 4.42 4.50/4.70 4.71 4.30/4.50 4.57
Germany 2.09 1.80/2.00 2.11 1.80/2.00 1.69
Japan -0.06 -0.10/0.00 -0.01 -0.10/0.00 0.01
United Kingdom 3.07 3.10/3.30 3.08 3.20/3.40 3.27
Ten-year bond yield forecasts, %
11 November 2022 Amundi +6m. Forward +6m. Amundi+12m. Forward +12m.
UnitedStates 3.87 4.00/4.20 4.18 3.90/4.10 4.17
Germany 2.11 2.30/2.50 2.29 2.30/2.50 2.16
Japan 0.24 0.10/0.30 0.37 0.10/0.30 0.47
United Kingdom 3.36 3.60/3.80 3.42 3.60/3.80 3.50
Equities forecast 12m. forward
MSCIindex Pacific ex-
US Europe EMU UK Japan World World AC
levels at Japan
11 Nov. 2022 3796 1740 239 2102 1213 1266 2674 619
Lower bound 3260 1540 200 1920 1080 1090 2320 550
Upper bound 4160 1850 260 2220 1300 1340 2910 680
Exchange rates
Exchange rates forecasts vs. USD
11 November 2022 Amundi +6m. Consensus +6m. Amundi+12m. Consensus +12m.
EUR/USD 1.03 0.96 1.01 1.04 1.04
USD/JPY 139 140 140 129 134
GBP/USD 1.18 1.10 1.13 1.17 1.18
USD/CHF 0.94 0.95 0.98 0.95 0.97
USD/NOK 9.93 10.50 9.93 9.45 9.17
USD/SEK 10.37 11.10 10.67 9.92 9.72
USD/CAD 1.33 1.38 1.35 1.30 1.32
AUD/USD 0.67 0.65 0.66 0.71 0.68
NZD/USD 0.61 0.58 0.60 0.62 0.63
USD/CNY 7.10 7.10 7.15 6.80 7.03
Exchange rates forecasts vs. EUR
11 November 2022 Amundi +6m. Consensus +6m. Amundi+12m. Consensus +12m.
EUR/USD 0.99 0.92 1.00 1.04 1.05
EUR/JPY 144 135 141 134 139
EUR/GBP 0.87 0.88 0.88 0.89 0.88
EUR/CHF 0.97 0.92 0.99 1.00 1.00
EUR/NOK 10.27 10.13 10.10 9.87 9.85
EUR/SEK 10.74 10.70 10.80 10.36 10.50
EUR/AUD 1.54 1.48 1.53 1.47 1.53
EUR/NZD 1.69 1.65 1.68 1.67 1.65
EUR/CNY 7.34 6.85 7.22 7.10 7.31
Source: Amundi Institute. Forecasts are as of 11 November 2022.
22 Marketing material for professional investors only

--- PAGE 23 ---
INVESTMENT OUTLOOK | 2023
AUTHORS
Chiefeditors Editors,AmundiInstitute
MonicaDEFEND,HeadofAmundiInstitute Claudia BERTINO, Head of Investment Insights & Publishing
VincentMORTIER,GroupChiefInvestmentOfficer Laura FIOROT, Head of Investment Insights & Client Division
MatteoGERMANO,DeputyGroupChiefInvestmentOfficer
Research team, Amundi Institute
Valentine AINOUZ, CFA, Head of Global Fixed Income Strategy
Mickael BELLAICHE, Fixed Income and Credit Research Strategist
Alessia BERARDI, Head of Emerging Macro Strategy
Jean-Baptiste BERTHON, Senior Cross Asset Strategist
Investment platforms leadership teams Sergio BERTONCINI, Senior Fixed Income Research Strategist
Amaury D’ORSAY, Head of Fixed Income Pierre BROUSSE, Analyst
Kasper ELMGREEN, Head of Equities Didier BOROWSKI, Head of Macro Policy Research, Deputy Head of
John O’TOOLE,Head of Multi-Asset Investment Solutions Global Macroeconomics
Francesco SANDRINI, Head of Multi-Asset Strategies Federico CESARINI, Head of DM FX
Yerlan SYZDYKOV, Head of Emerging Markets John COADOU, Equity Strategist
Kenneth J. TAUBES, CIO of US Investment Management Debora DELBO', Senior EM Macro Strategist
Silvia DI SILVIO, Senior Cross Asset Strategist
Patryk DROZDZIK, Senior EM Macro Strategist
Delphine GEORGES, Senior Fixed Income Research Strategist
Karine HERVE’, Senior EM Macro Strategist
Claire HUANG, Senior EM Macro Strategist
Jung Hun KIM MOON, CFA, Senior Cross Asset Strategist
Valérie LETORT, Economist
Eric MIJOT, Head of Global Equity Strategy
Shail NATHOO, EM Research Analyst (V.I.E.)
Investment Insights & Client Division, Amundi Institute Lorenzo PORTELLI, Head of Cross Asset Strategy, Head of Research
Pol CARULLA, Investment Insights & Client Division Specialist at Amundi Italy
Anna ROSENBERG, Head of Geopolitics
Ujjwal DHINGRA, Investment Insights & Client Division Specialist
Paula NIALL, Investment Insights & Client Division Specialist Joao TONIATO, Senior Equity Strategist
Francesca PANELLI, Investment Insights & Client Division Specialist Annalisa USARDI, CFA, Senior Economist
Tristan PERRIER, Macroeconomist & Investment Insights Specialist Sosi VARTANESYAN, Senior Sovereign Analyst
AMUNDI INSTITUTE
In an increasingly complex and changing world, investors have expressed a critical need to understand better their
environment and the evolution of investment practices in order to define their asset allocation and help construct their
portfolios. Situated at the heart of the global investment process, the Amundi Institute's objective is to provide thought
leadership, strengthen the advice, training and daily dialogue on these subjects across all assets for all its clients –
distributors,institutionsandcorporates.TheAmundiInstitutebringstogetherAmundi’sresearch,marketstrategy,investment
insightsandassetallocationadvisoryactivities.ItsaimistoprojecttheviewsandinvestmentrecommendationsofAmundi.
23 Marketing material for professional investors only

--- PAGE 24 ---
INVESTMENT OUTLOOK | 2023
Q2 2021 | May 2021
.
.
..
Sourcescorrelationanalysispage13:
.
Theanalysisisbasedonthefollowingindices:Equity:S&P500index,Governmentbonds:JPMUSallmaturity,USIGandHY:ICEBofA
.
corporateIGandHYindices,EMbonds:JPMorganGEMindex,Inflationlinkers:Bloombergallmaturitiesinflation-linkedbonds,Cash:
UScashtotalreturn,Gold:goldspotpriceinUSD.
DefinitionsofFXshowedinbottomchartonp.17:
BRL:Brazilianreal,PEN:Peruviansol,ILS:Israelishekel,IDR:Indonesianrupee,CLP:Chileanpeso,ZAR:SouthAfricarand,INR:Indian
rupee,COP:Colombianpeso,COP:Philippinespeso,THB:Thaibaht,PLN:Polishzloty,HUF:Hungarianforint,TWD:Taiwandollar,RUB:
Russianruble,CZK:Czechkrona,CNY:Chineseyuan,RON:Romanianleu,MYR,Malaysiaringgit,KRW:Koreanwon,MXN:Mexicopeso,
TRY:Turkishlira.
Definitionsandabbreviations:
Alpha: The additional return above the expected return of the beta-adjusted market return; a positive alpha suggests risk-adjusted value is
added by the money manager compared with the index.
Asset purchase programme: A type of monetary policy wherein central banks purchase securities from the market to increase money
supply and encourage lending and investment.
Basis points: One basis point is a unit of measure equal to one one-hundredth of one percentage point (0.01%).
Beta:Betaisariskmeasurerelatedtomarketvolatility,with1beingequaltomarketvolatilityandlessthan1beinglessvolatilethanthe
market.
Correlation: The degree of association between two or more variables; in finance, it is the degree to which assets or asset class prices
have moved in relation to each other. Correlation is expressed by a correlation coefficient that ranges from -1 (always move in opposite
direction)through0(absolutelyindependent)to1(alwaysmoveinthesamedirection).
Creditspread:ThedifferentialbetweentheyieldonacreditbondandtheTreasuryyield.Theoption-adjustedspreadisameasureofthe
spreadadjustedtotakeintoconsiderationthepossibleembeddedoptions.
Currency abbreviations: USD: US dollar, JPY: Japanese yen, GBP: British pound, EUR: euro, CAD: Canadian dollar, SEK: Swedish
krona,NOK:Norwegiankrone,CHF:SwissFranc,NZD:NewZealanddollar,AUD:Australiandollar,CNY:Chineserenminbi.
Curve flattening: A flattening yield curve may be a result of long-term interest rates falling more than short-term interest rates or short-term
rates increasing more than long-term rates.
Curve steepening: A steepening yield curve may be a result of long-term interest rates rising more than short-term interest rates or short-
term rates dropping more than long-term rates.
Cyclical vs. defensive sectors: Cyclical companies are companies whose profit and stock prices are highly correlated with economic
fluctuations. Defensive stocks, on the contrary, are less correlated to economic cycles. MSCI GICS cyclical sectors are: consumer
discretionary, financial, real estate, industrials, information technology and materials. Defensive sectors are: consumer staples, energy,
healthcare,telecommunicationsservicesandutilities.
Directionalstrategies(Long-shortequity,CTAandfuturestrading,globalmacro):Thesestrategiestakelongandshortpositionson
markets according to fundamental or statistical analysis. Directional positions may be taken in various markets based on systematic or
discretionarytradingmodels.
Diversification:Diversificationisastrategythatmixesavarietyofinvestmentswithinaportfolio,inanattemptatlimitingexposuretoany
singleassetorrisk.
Duration: A measure of the sensitivity of the price (the value of principal) of a fixed income investment to a change in interest rates,
expressedasanumberofyears.
Event-driven strategies (distressed securities, special situations, merger arbitrage): Buy or sell securities considered to be
under/over-valuedwithregardtoexistingorpotentialevents.
FX:FXmarketsrefertotheforeignexchangemarkets,whereparticipantscanbuyandsellcurrencies.
GBI:GovernmentBondIndex.
Liquidity:Thecapacitytobuyorsellassetsquicklyenoughtopreventorminimisealoss.
PEPP:Pandemicemergencypurchaseprogramme.
PE ratio:Theprice-to-earnings ratio (PE ratio)is theratioforvaluingacompanythat measures itscurrent sharepricerelativetoitsper-
shareearnings(EPS).
Qualityinvesting: Thismeans to capture the performance of quality growth stocks by identifying stocks with: 1) A high return on equity
(ROE);2)Stableyear-over-yearearningsgrowth;and3)Lowfinancialleverage.
Quantitativeeasing(QE):QEisamonetarypolicyinstrumentusedbycentralbankstostimulatetheeconomybybuyingfinancialassets
fromcommercialbanksandotherfinancialinstitutions.
Quantitativetightening(QT):QTisacontractionarymonetarypolicyaimedtodecreasetheliquidityintheeconomy.ItmeansthataCB
reducesthepaceofreinvestmentofproceedsfrommaturinggovernmentbonds.ItalsomeansthattheCBmayincreaseinterestratesasa
tooltocurbmoneysupply.
Relative-value strategies(convertible arbitrage, fixed-incomearbitrage, marketneutral, long-shortcredit):Thesestrategies exploit
pricinganomaliesonvariousmarkets.
Spread:Thedifferencebetweentwopricesorinterestrates.
TLTRO: Thetargetedlonger-term refinancingoperations (TLTROs)areEurosystem operations that provide financingtocredit institutions
for a predefined period. They offer long-term funding at attractive conditions to banks tofurther ease private sector credit conditions and
stimulatebanklendingtotherealeconomy.
Valuestyle:Thisreferstopurchasingstocksatrelativelylowprices,asindicatedbylowprice-to-earnings,price-to-bookandprice-to-sales
ratios,andhighdividendyields.Sectorswithadominanceofvaluestyle:energy,financials,telecom,utilities,realestate.
Volatility:Astatisticalmeasureofthedispersionofreturnsforagivensecurityormarketindex.Usually,thehigherthevolatility,theriskier
thesecurity/market.
Yield curve control: YCC involves targeting a longer-term interest rate by a central bank, then buying or selling as many bonds as
necessary to hit that rate target. This approach is dramatically different from any central bank’s typical way of managing a country’s
economicgrowthandinflation,whichisbysettingakeyshort-terminterestrate.
24 Marketing material for professional investors only

--- PAGE 25 ---
INVESTMENT OUTLOOK | 2023
Q2 2021 | May 2021
.
.
..
.
.
Importantinformation
TheMSCIinformationmayonlybeusedforyourinternaluse,maynotbereproducedorredisseminatedinanyformandmaynotbeused
as abasisfororacomponent of anyfinancial instruments orproductsorindices. Noneof theMSCI information isintendedtoconstitute
investmentadviceorarecommendationtomake(orrefrainfrommaking)anykindofinvestmentdecisionandmaynotbereliedonassuch.
Historicaldataandanalysisshould not betakenas anindicationorguarantee of anyfutureperformance analysis,forecastorprediction.
The MSCI information is provided on an “as is” basis and the user of this information assumes the entire risk of any use made of this
information. MSCI, each of its affiliates and each other person involved in or related to compiling, computing or creating any MSCI
information (collectively, the “MSCI Parties”) expressly disclaims all warranties (including, without limitation, any warranties of originality,
accuracy,completeness,timeliness,non-infringement,merchantabilityandfitnessforaparticularpurpose)withrespecttothisinformation.
Withoutlimitinganyoftheforegoing,innoeventshallanyMSCIPartyhaveanyliabilityforanydirect,indirect,special,incidental,punitive,
consequential(including,withoutlimitation,lostprofits)oranyotherdamages.(www.mscibarra.com).IntheEuropeanUnion,thisdocument
is only for the attention of “Professional” investors as defined in Directive 2014/65/EU dated 15 May 2014 on markets in financial
instruments(“MIFID”),toinvestmentservicesprovidersandanyotherprofessionalofthefinancialindustry,andasthecasemaybeineach
localregulations and,asfarastheofferinginSwitzerlandisconcerned, a“QualifiedInvestor”within themeaningoftheprovisionsof the
SwissCollectiveInvestmentSchemesActof23June2006(CISA),theSwissCollectiveInvestmentSchemesOrdinanceof22November
2006 (CISO) and the FINMA’s Circular 08/8 on Public Advertising under the Collective Investment Schemes legislation of 20 November
2008.InnoeventmaythismaterialbedistributedintheEuropeanUniontonon“Professional”investorsasdefinedintheMIFIDorineach
local regulation, or in Switzerland to investors who do not comply with the definition of “qualified investors” as defined in the applicable
legislationandregulation.
Thisdocumentissolelyforinformationalpurposes.Thisdocumentdoesnotconstituteanoffertosell,asolicitationofanoffertobuy,ora
recommendationofanysecurityoranyotherproductorservice.Anysecurities,products,orservicesreferencedmaynotberegisteredfor
salewiththerelevantauthorityinyourjurisdictionandmaynotberegulatedorsupervisedbyanygovernmentalorsimilarauthorityinyour
jurisdiction.Anyinformationcontainedinthisdocumentmayonlybeusedforyourinternaluse,maynotbereproducedorredisseminatedin
anyform andmaynotbeusedasabasisfororacomponentofanyfinancialinstrumentsorproductsorindices.Furthermore,nothingin
thisdocumentisintendedtoprovidetax,legal,orinvestmentadvice.Unlessotherwisestated,allinformationcontainedinthisdocumentis
from Amundi Asset Management S.A.S. and is as of 14 November 2022. Diversification does not guarantee a profit or protect against a
loss. This document is provided on an “as is” basis and the user of this information assumes the entire risk of any use made of this
information.Historicaldataandanalysisshouldnotbetakenasanindicationorguaranteeofanyfutureperformanceanalysis,forecastor
prediction. The views expressed regarding market and economic trends are those of the author and not necessarily Amundi Asset
Management S.A.S. and are subject to change at any time based on market and other conditions, and there can be no assurance that
countries, markets or sectors will perform as expected. These views should not be relied upon as investment advice, a security
recommendation, oras anindicationof tradingforanyAmundi product. Investmentinvolves risks,includingmarket,political,liquidityand
currencyrisks. Furthermore, innoevent shall Amundi haveanyliabilityforanydirect, indirect, special,incidental, punitive, consequential
(including,withoutlimitation,lostprofits)oranyotherdamagesduetoitsuse.
Date of first use: 16 November 2022.
DocumentissuedbyAmundiAssetManagement,“sociétéparactionssimplifiée”-SASwithacapitalof€1,143,615,555-Portfoliomanager
regulated by the AMF under number GP04000036 – Head office: 91-93 boulevard Pasteur – 75015 Paris – France – 437 574 452 RCS
Paris–www.amundi.com.Photocredit:©PaulKnowles/EyeEm-iStock/GettyImages.
25 Marketing material for professional investors only