SOURCE: blackrock/blackrock_2020_midyear.pdf
PAGES: 17

--- PAGE 1 ---
BLACKROCK
2020 Midyear Outlook
The Future is Running at Us
IMPORTANT NOTICE
The following material is provided by a third-party strategist unaffiliated with AssetMark. The
strategist is solely responsible for its content. Please read the risks and disclosures section
for additional important information. AssetMark has not verified the accuracy of the
information contained in this material.
For financial advisor use with advisory clients.
C20-16607 | 09/2020 | EXP 09/30/2021
AssetMark, Inc. is an investment adviser registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

--- PAGE 2 ---
FOR PUBLIC DISTRIBUTION IN THE U.S., CANADA, HONG KONG, SINGAPORE AND AUSTRALIA.
FOR INSTITUTIONAL, PROFESSIONAL, QUALIFIED INVESTORS AND QUALIFIED CLIENTS IN OTHER PERMITTED COUNTRIES.
2020 midyear
outlook
BlackRock
Investment
Institute
The future is running at us
BIIH0620U-1222313-1/16

--- PAGE 3 ---
FOR PUBLIC DISTRIBUTION IN THE U.S., CANADA, HONG KONG, SINGAPORE AND AUSTRALIA.
FOR INSTITUTIONAL, PROFESSIONAL, QUALIFIED INVESTORS AND QUALIFIED CLIENTS IN OTHER PERMITTED COUNTRIES.
The future is running at us. The coronavirus shock is accelerating
structural trends in inequality, globalization, macro policy and
sustainability. This is fundamentally reshaping the investment landscape
and will be key to investor outcomes. Our three new investment themes –
Activity restart, Policy revolution and Real resilience –are meant to reflect
Philipp Hildebrand Jean Boivin the rapidly changing world. The most important action investors need to
Vice Chairman — Head —BlackRock take today, in our view, is to review their strategic asset allocation to
BlackRock Investment Institute ensure portfolios are resilient to the supercharged trends.
ElgaBartsch The initial Covid-19 contraction is larger Investors grapple with these issues today.
Head of Macro Research — than the great financial crisis, but we believe This is why our virtual Midyear Outlook
BlackRock Investment Institute its cumulative impact on the economy will Forum focused on structural trends –and
likely be less as long as the policy response why we emphasize three strategic calls.
remains strong enough to cushion the blow.
MikePyle First, central banks have committed to keep
Global Chief Investment Strategist — Normal business cycle dynamics do not rates low, enabling an unprecedented fiscal
BlackRock Investment Institute apply, so we are tracking three signposts: expansion. Combined with the risk of supply
how successful economies are at restarting shocks, this raises the potential for higher
activity while controlling the virus spread; inflation in the medium term and challenges
Scott Thiel
whether stimulus is still sufficient and the role of nominal government bonds as
Chief Fixed Income Strategist —
reaching households and businesses; and ballast over a strategic horizon. Second, the
BlackRock Investment Institute
whether any signs of financial vulnerabilities pandemic has accelerated a tectonic shift
or permanent scarring of productive capacity toward sustainability. Third, deglobalization
are emerging. Markets are laser-focused on and fragmentation call for a focus on real
changes in any of these three “known resilience: diversifying across companies,
Contents unknowns,” and a possible second wave of sectors and countries that are positioned
infections and policy fatigue are major risks well for these trends.
First words 2-4 Forum focus 8-9 in the second half.
On a tactical horizon, we are modestly
Summary 2 Geopolitics 8
The shock will have long-term consequences pro-risk, with an overweight in corporate
Introduction 3-4 Emerging world 9
that are starting to play out. Policymakers credit. We prefer up-in-quality assets with
are funnelling money directly to the (non- strong policy backstops. One of our highest-
Themes 5-7 Asset allocation 10-15 financial) private sector, with debt conviction views is an increased overweight
Activity restart 5 S t r a t e g i c v i e w s 10-13 monetization a possibility down the road. The to the quality factor. We upgrade European
Policy revolution 6 T a c tical views 14-15 pandemic is reinforcing structural trends equities to overweight as the most attractive
Real resilience 7 such as ecommerce and sustainability; exposure to a cyclical uptick. We cut U.S.
amplifying deglobalization and geopolitical equities to neutral after a stretch of
fragmentation; and may deliver a outperformance as we see risks of fading
generational shock to the emerging world. fiscal stimulus and election uncertainty.
22 2020 midyear outlook Summary BIIH0620U-1222313-2/16

--- PAGE 4 ---
FOR PUBLIC DISTRIBUTION IN THE U.S., CANADA, HONG KONG, SINGAPORE AND AUSTRALIA.
FOR INSTITUTIONAL, PROFESSIONAL, QUALIFIED INVESTORS AND QUALIFIED CLIENTS IN OTHER PERMITTED COUNTRIES.
Activity restart
The future is now
Economies are slowly restarting, but at different paces.
We are tracking the evolution of the virus and mobility.
The longer it takes for activity to restart, the more cracks
might appear in the financial system.
The focus of the BlackRock Investment Market sentiment has been driven by the
Institute’s virtual –but no-less real – pandemic’s near-term evolution and the Strategic implication: We are moderately pro risk,
Midyear Outlook Forum in early June policy response, but these structural and express it in an overweight to credit.
was decisively on longer-term trends. limits are transforming the investment
Tactical implication: We have closed our underweights
The Covid-19 shock has pushed the landscape and will be significant to
in cyclical assets, with a preference for Europe.
world harder against four key limits we investment outcomes.
identified at our November forum:
The world has changed, leading us to a
inequality, globalization, macro policy
completely new macro framework and
and sustainability. Policy revolution
major view changes. Our revamped 2020
The public health and ensuing economic investment themes reflect this, and now
The policy revolution was needed to cushion the
crisis are exacerbating entrenched forms include strategic, or long-term,
devastating and deflationary impact of the virus shock.
of inequality across income levels, race implications. See the boxes on the right.
In the medium term, however, the blurring of monetary
and countries. Many emerging markets
Our current macro view is captured by and fiscal policy could bring about upside inflation risks.
(EMs) are facing health, policy and
the “Activity restart” theme as economies
deglobalization challenges. From an Strategic implication: We are underweight nominal
reopen at different speeds. See page 5.
investment perspective, the group’s government bonds and like inflation-linked bonds.
heterogenous nature creates dispersion A policy revolution is taking place to
Tactical implication: We like credit, partly on central bank
and opportunities. See page 9. cushion the pandemic’s impact, making
purchases. U.S. stocks are at risk of fading fiscal stimulus.
this our second theme. See page 6.
The pandemic has exposed
vulnerabilities of global supply chains, Our third theme is “Real resilience.”
and added impetus to geopolitical Financial resilience of portfolios –such
fragmentation. See page 8. It has led to as the diversification of equity risk Real resilience
a policy revolution that blurs the through government bond allocations –
boundaries between fiscal and monetary will not be enough to offset the real Supercharged structural trends will change the nature of
action –and could address some of the economic changes that we see in portfolio diversification. Countries and sectors will make
rising inequalities. This is positive for motion, in our view. See page 7. a comeback as diversifiers in a more fragmented world, in
markets in the short run but may be less our view, offering resilience to real economy trends.
What is needed is a reassessment of the
so in the medium term. See page 6. And
whole portfolio, not just tweaking its Strategic implication: We favor sustainable assets,
it has put a premium on sustainability,
edges. This is why we are focused on the private markets and deliberate country diversification.
corporate responsibility and resilience
big strategic changes investors should
of companies, sectors and countries. Tactical implication: We have increased our overweight in
consider making now. See pages 10-12.
See pages 7 and 12. the quality factor and prefer assets with policy backstops.
33 2020 midyear outlook Introduction BIIH0620U-1222313-3/16

--- PAGE 5 ---
FOR PUBLIC DISTRIBUTION IN THE U.S., CANADA, HONG KONG, SINGAPORE AND AUSTRALIA.
FOR INSTITUTIONAL, PROFESSIONAL, QUALIFIED INVESTORS AND QUALIFIED CLIENTS IN OTHER PERMITTED COUNTRIES.
Very visible shock
Sizing the shock
S&P 500 Index vs. U.S. initial jobless claims, Feb-June 2020
105 7
100 6
The virus shock is entirely different from We use signposts for tracking these risks
the normal business cycle. Global in real time:
J
economic activity was deliberately frozen 95 5 b o
to stem the pandemic. The initial shock
1. Tracking the interplay of mobility,
x s
el
virus spread and containment e s
w
m
a
a
s
t t
s
e
u
rs
d d
fo
e
r
n
a
a
s
n
s
d
e t
v
p
e
r
r
i
y
c i
d
n
e
g
e p
is
.
t
Y
h
e
e
t what m
sta
e
r
a
t
s
t
u
o
r e
re
s
o
o
p
n
e n
a c
(
t
p
iv
a
i
g
ty
e
a
5
s
) .
e conomies d n i
0
0
90 4
mi
al c
cumulative impact of the growth 5 s
shortfall over time. 2. Monitoring whether policy P & 85 3 m (
measures to cushion the shock
S oilli
The policy actions to cushion the impact 80 2n
are reaching households and s
of the virus shock are nothing short of a )
businesses, and whether fiscal
revolution. Execution remains a risk,
stimulus is fading too fast (page 6). 75 1
but if successful, we see the cumulative
economic damage even under the 3. Watching for emerging signs of
70 0
currently most bearish forecasts as financial vulnerabilities and any
February March April May June
below that in the wake of the 2008 permanent scarring of productive
global financial crisis. See How large is capacity. n S&P 500 n U.S. jobless claims
the coronavirus shock?
The shock was like a natural disaster – Source: BlackRock Investment Institute, with data from RefinitivDatastream,
History offers little insight on the path and very visible. Markets priced in the June 2020. Notes: The yellow bars show initial claims for U.S. unemployment
of economic reopening–or on how asset impact before the horrendous job losses insurance. The S&P 500 is indexed to 100 at Jan. 31. Past performance is no
guarantee of future results. Indexes are unmanaged and are not subject to fees.
prices should react. Ahead of us is a materialized. The unprecedented policy
It is not possible to invest directly in an index.
“restart” of economic activity, with many response initially helped turn risk assets
uncertainties around how quickly people around in late March. Once the extent of
and companies will feel comfortable to the damage became clear in April,
resume their pre-pandemic activities. markets looked forward to the reopening
of economies and eventual recovery. Markets are focused on a return
The longer it takes for activity to restart,
See the Very visible shock chart.
the more cracks might appear in of economic activity, delivery of
the financial system and productive As such, there doesn’t appear to
stimulus and signs of financial
capacity. That leaves us with three key be a major disconnect between
risks: renewed infection waves, policy market pricing and the real economy. vulnerabilities.
exhaustion and any permanent damage Yet setbacks on any of our
to the economy. signposts could hit risk assets.
44 2020 midyear outlook Introduction BIIH0620U-1222313-4/16

--- PAGE 6 ---
FOR PUBLIC DISTRIBUTION IN THE U.S., CANADA, HONG KONG, SINGAPORE AND AUSTRALIA.
FOR INSTITUTIONAL, PROFESSIONAL, QUALIFIED INVESTORS AND QUALIFIED CLIENTS IN OTHER PERMITTED COUNTRIES.
Theme 1
Asymmetrical assessment
Impact of mobility and lockdown severity on services sector, June 2020
Activity restart
n Tightening n Easing
The pandemic and containment Mobility is key to tracking the virus Lockdown severity
measures brought activity to a shock. Metrics that gauge the
virtual standstill, delivering a movement of people using mobile
historic shock to the economy. phone location data can help
This is not a business cycle capture individual behaviors.
slowdown and recovery. That is They are more closely tied to
why markets could see beyond the economic activity than the severity
unprecedented contraction and of lockdowns, our analysis shows. Consumer mobility
started to recover well before any See the Asymmetrical assessment
signs of a rebound in activity. chart. This means the response of
people to the virus has more impact
The near-term contraction is the
than government policies alone. We
worst since the Great Depression
also find restricting mobility and -6 -4 -2 0 2 4 6
and far deeper than the global
imposing lockdowns has a bigger Services PMI change
financial crisis (GFC), according
effect on the key services industry
to OECD forecasts. But the Sources: BlackRock Investment Institute, Oxford University and Google with data from Haver
than easing those measures.
Analytics, June 2020. Note: This chart shows the impact that a 10-point move up or down in
cumulative shortfall in GDP should
consumer mobility data and stringency measures have on the service sectors of the U.S., Japan,
only be a fraction of that in the The pace of the activity restart
France, UK, Canada, Spain, Italy, Germany and Sweden. We useGoogledata on retail and
wake of the GFC, our analysis depends on how successful
recreation activity for the mobility score andOxford dataon lockdown stringency. “Tightening”
shows. The reason is the countries are in supressing the virus
means increased lockdown severity and reduced mobility. We use a panel regression to measure
overwhelming policy response to as they reopen. Our mobility the effect of mobility on services activity and how this differs between tightening and easing.
cushion the pandemic’s impact. We research suggests the risk of
don’t see the shock morphing into renewed virus outbreaks may be
a financial crisis as long as these highest in the U.S. among developed
policies stay in place. See page 6. nations. China is on the leading
We find that measures of mobility are
edge of economic reopening. The
The longer it takes for activity to
pandemic’s longer-term investment more closely tied to activity than the
normalize, the deeper the
implications are about changing
economic scars will be. We are severity of lockdown measures. This
societal preferences, sectoral
tracking the interplay between
adjustments, digitalization and the suggests investors should focus on
containment measures and
relocation of global supply chains.
mobility changes and activity as mobility rather than government rules.
Alternative data sources are key to
economies start to reopen.
getting a handle on this.
55 2020 midyear outlook Themes BIIH0620U-1222313-5/16

--- PAGE 7 ---
FOR PUBLIC DISTRIBUTION IN THE U.S., CANADA, HONG KONG, SINGAPORE AND AUSTRALIA.
FOR INSTITUTIONAL, PROFESSIONAL, QUALIFIED INVESTORS AND QUALIFIED CLIENTS IN OTHER PERMITTED COUNTRIES.
Theme 2
Filling in the gap
Estimated virus hit to GDP vs. offsetting policy measures, 2020
Policy revolution
U.S.
.S
.U
There has been a much-needed Without proper guardrails and a
oa
policy revolution to cushion the clear exit strategy, however, we Euro arear u* e
r
coronavirus shock. Policymakers warned of a medium-term risk of Ea
are relying less on financial sector uncontrolled deficits with
n
transmission to stimulate activity – commensurate monetary expansion a
Japan p
and more on direct support to the and, ultimately, rising inflation. a
J
real economy. There is a blurring of
Where are we now? Debt has
fiscal and monetary policies as well
ballooned –so far without a rise in K
as government intervention in the UK U
rates. If coordination made that
economy and financial markets.
possible, it could be tempting to
0% 5% 10% 15% 20% 25%
The global policy response to the continue even in normal times. But
Impact on GDP
pandemic has been unprecedented there is no free lunch. Debt rollover
n Initial impact n Fiscal measures
in speed and size. The combined will become harder when rates rise. It
n Spillovers to the full economy n Central bank, private sector lending
sum of fiscal and monetary actions may eventually have to be dealt with
is covering the virus hit to the through austerity, default or * The euro area is represented by averages of Germany, France, Italy and Spain.
economy in both the U.S. and euro inflation. Inflation could be seen as Sources: BlackRock Investment Institute, with data from the Federal Reserve, ECB, BOJ, BOE and
area. See the Filling the gap chart. the most politically palatable Haver Analytics, June 2020. Notes: The chart shows the magnitude of the negative shock
We now see a risk of policy fatigue solution. And even a well-designed (orange) and the associated positive policy response (yellow) as percentages of GDP. We use
estimated 2020 targets for the U.S. and euro area central bank purchases and lending programs.
in the U.S. as policymakers face a monetary policy strategy may not
The euro area includes the ECB’s Targeted Longer-Term Refinancing Operations. The UK
series of “fiscal cliffs” and may cut prevent inflation over time due to
includes central bank support for the Term Funding Scheme.
fiscal relief prematurely–one deglobalization and re-regulation.
reason for our U.S. equities
Our bottom line: The policy
downgrade. By contrast, Europe
revolution was essential. It is a near-
has ramped up stimulus efforts.
term positive for risk assets–but is The policy revolution is essential to deal
This partly underpins our upgrade
unlikely to be the prelude to the type
of European stocks to overweight. with the shock and is good news for
of policy-driven, decade-long bull
We wrote last August about the market that followed the GFC. A key markets in the short run. But that may
necessity for effective monetary implication is reduced ballast of
not be the case in the medium term.
and fiscal coordination in a major nominal government bonds over a
shock because it would help reduce strategic horizon. Rates are near
lost output and could lessen risks their effective lower bounds, and we
such as rising inequality. see inflation risks in coming years.
66 2020 midyear outlook Themes BIIH0620U-1222313-6/16

--- PAGE 8 ---
FOR PUBLIC DISTRIBUTION IN THE U.S., CANADA, HONG KONG, SINGAPORE AND AUSTRALIA.
FOR INSTITUTIONAL, PROFESSIONAL, QUALIFIED INVESTORS AND QUALIFIED CLIENTS IN OTHER PERMITTED COUNTRIES.
Theme 3
Going private
Growth in private markets, 2000 -2019
Real resilience
n Private market value n Size vs. public markets
6 6%
Structural shifts are challenging Investors need to embrace
the resilience of portfolios. With the uncertainty in this environment. )
n S
policy revolution pushing yield Our methodology for constructing o h
il a
curves close to their lower bounds, portfolios explicitly takes into l ir e r
we see government bonds account fundamental uncertainty t $ 4 4% o
providing less diversification around long-term mean returns. The
(
s p
f
t u
benefits in strategic allocations. coronavirus shock only underscores e k r i l b
See page 10. the importance of uncertainty for a c
m m
Many assets are vulnerable to
building portfolio resilience.
e a
Structural portfolio resilience is t a 2 2% k r
the physical and regulatory v e
implications of climate change
much more than just relying on ir
P s
t
broad asset class correlations in
and other sustainability-related
public markets. It’s making sure the
risks. The pandemic has sparked
portfolio is well positioned at the
concerns about fragile supply
regional, country and company level 0 0%
chains and companies’ social to underlying themes. 2000 2005 2010 2015 2019
license to operate, accelerating a
Sources: BlackRock Investment Institute, with data from Preqin, June 2020. Notes: The bars
trend toward sustainable investing. Private markets, which are not
represent the sum of net asset value of closed-end funds as well as dry powder of funds in these
See page 11. suitable for all investors, offer this
asset classes: private equity and venture capital, real estate, private debt, infrastructure and
potential. Managers have a say in
China and the U.S. are intensifying natural resources. The line shows the size of private markets relative to that of public markets.
structuring the investments and are
their strategic rivalry across
able to add custom-made resilience.
multiple dimensions, resulting in
Private markets can give exposures
an increasingly bipolar world. See
to emerging technologies and other
page 8. Investors need to balance
real-economy trends not available in
the investment case for gaining Structural portfolio resilience is much
public markets, in our view. And they
exposure to both poles with
are bigger and deeper than ever. See more than just relying on broad asset
possible investment restrictions on
the Going private chart.
each side. Greater geopolitical class correlations in public markets.
fragmentation means that portfolio Bottom line: The virus shock is
It’s making sure the portfolio is well
resilience will have to be driven by creating new norms and
deliberate diversification across accelerating structural trends. What positioned for underlying themes.
countries and regions. is needed now is real resilience.
77 2020 midyear outlook Themes BIIH0620U-1222313-7/16

--- PAGE 9 ---
FOR PUBLIC DISTRIBUTION IN THE U.S., CANADA, HONG KONG, SINGAPORE AND AUSTRALIA.
FOR INSTITUTIONAL, PROFESSIONAL, QUALIFIED INVESTORS AND QUALIFIED CLIENTS IN OTHER PERMITTED COUNTRIES.
Forum focus
Shifting center of gravity
Regional share of global GDP, 1990-2024
Geopolitics
60%
The pandemic has added fuel to Third, government intervention in 50%
geopolitical dynamics already economies is likely to become more
P
underway. The post-coronavirus entrenched. Unprecedented policy D
G
world is likely to be characterized support comes with strings attached
la 40%
by four key themes: First, the world –including curbs on share buybacks b
is increasingly becoming bifurcated, and dividend payouts –and o lg n North America, Europe, Japan
with the U.S. and China at opposite companies increasingly will need a f n Asia ex-Japan
o
poles. Intense rivalry looks set to social license to operate. Lastly, the e 30%
r
affect nearly every dimension of pandemic exacerbates inequalities a
h
the U.S.-China relationship — within and across countries. It has S
regardless of the U.S. election hit hard emerging economies with
20%
outcome. Other countries will more limited institutional capacity.
increasingly be pushed to choose
Domestic polarization is on the rise
sides. Decoupling is focused on –
too, with the U.S. presidential
but not limited to –the technology 10%
election set to take place against the
sector. This means investors need 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2015 2020
most tumultuous domestic
exposure to both markets,
backdrop since 1968. The two Sources: BlackRock Investment Institute, with data from IMF, Refinitiv., June 2020. Notes: The
especially as the center of gravity
parties are as far apart on policy as lines show how each region’s combined share of global GDP on a purchasing power parity basis.
of global growth is moving to Asia,
The dotted lines show the forecast period based on IMF projections to 2024.
they have ever been, making the
as the Shifting center of gravity
result consequential for markets.
chart shows.
Second, the pandemic is poised to
accelerate deglobalization as it
magnifies nationalist and We face a far less globalized
The world looks increasingly bifurcated,
protectionist trends. The crisis adds
international system, with
to existing pressures such as global states playing a greater role in with the U.S. and China at opposite
trade tensions and populism. This
the private economy. poles as their rivalry intensifies.
threatens to disrupt the web of
global supply chains at the expense Tom Donilon Investors should consider gaining
of efficiency. It may lead to
Chairman, BlackRock exposure to both spheres.
onshoring the production of
Investment Institute
strategic goods.
88 2020 midyear outlook Forum focus BIIH0620U-1222313-8/16

--- PAGE 10 ---
FOR PUBLIC DISTRIBUTION IN THE U.S., CANADA, HONG KONG, SINGAPORE AND AUSTRALIA.
FOR INSTITUTIONAL, PROFESSIONAL, QUALIFIED INVESTORS AND QUALIFIED CLIENTS IN OTHER PERMITTED COUNTRIES.
Forum focus
Stark divergence
New Covid-19 cases in developed and emerging markets, 2020
Emerging markets
125
n Developed n Emerging ex-China n China
Many emerging markets entered We divide EM economies into three 100
)
the crisis in stronger financial columns. First: those with relatively s
d
shape than in the past and –unlike strong balance sheets and the policy n
a
in previous crises –let currencies space to weather the downturn. s75
u
depreciate as a release valve. Many northern Asian economies, o
h
Many have weak public health
including China and South Korea, fit t (
s
this bill. Second is a group of e
systems, however, and the s50
troubled economies with high a
pandemic has not yet peaked. See c
external imbalances and rising w
the Stark divergencechart. Activity e
indebtedness that face financial N
remains frozen in many EMs, debt 25
distress. The third group includes
levels are on the rise, and some
large EM economies such as Mexico,
have limited ability to cushion the
India and Russia, which face large
virus shock. This challenges long-
economic shocks but likely have the 0
standing pillars of EM investing:
tools to weather them. Our Emerging January February March April May June
strong growth, strong balance
markets markershows the diversity.
sheets and fiscal conservatism. Source: BlackRock Investment Institute, with data from Oxford Covid-19 Government Response
Bottom line: We downgrade broad Tracker, June 2020. Notes: The chart shows the rolling 7-day average of new confirmed cases .
The shock’s size–and ability to
EM equities and debt to tactical DM countries are based on those in the MSCI World index; EM is based on countries in the MSCI
withstand it–varies greatly across
underweights, and see country and Emerging Market index and MSCI Frontier Market index.
EM countries, and the resulting
security selection as key.
dispersion offers opportunity.
EM investing has never been A large number of emerging
The pandemic has dealt a generational
more compelling given the markets are not capable of
dispersion and resiliency to handling the shock.” shock to the emerging world. Yet the
shocks of many economies.” impact varies greatly across economies.
Sergio Trigo Paz Amer Bisat This increases dispersion, and makes
Head of BlackRock Head of Sovereign country and security selection crucial.
Emerging Markets and Emerging Markets
Fixed Income Alpha, BlackRock
Global Fixed Income
99 2020 midyear outlook Forum focus BIIH0620U-1222313-9/16

--- PAGE 11 ---
FOR PUBLIC DISTRIBUTION IN THE U.S., CANADA, HONG KONG, SINGAPORE AND AUSTRALIA.
FOR INSTITUTIONAL, PROFESSIONAL, QUALIFIED INVESTORS AND QUALIFIED CLIENTS IN OTHER PERMITTED COUNTRIES.
Strategic view 1
Fading case for nominal bonds
Illustrative U.S. Treasuries allocations in various scenarios, June 2020
The role of bonds
Before Covid-19 shock
The traditional approach to No one asset can directly replace the
building financial resilience in ballast role of nominal government
Lower returns after shock
multi-asset portfolios has been to bonds, but we believe inflation-
rely on nominal government bonds linked bonds offer an increasingly
as a cushion against risk asset sell- attractive alternative. Inflationary
offs. One consequence of the policy pressures could build up once the
Yield curve control
revolution –bond yields tethered initial deflationary shock from the
by central bank intervention – sizeable demand shortfall
challenges this and forces dissipates. Deglobalization, re-
investors to seek out alternatives. regulation and deficits are possible
catalysts. And central banks will Lower bounds only
We expect negative returns across
likely tolerate temporary overshoots
developed market government
bonds on a five-year horizon given above inflation targets. n U.S. Treasuries n Other
low and negative yields today. Also, Bottom line: Investors need to re-
Source: BlackRock Investment Institute, June 2020. Notes: The chart shows the allocation to
the inverse correlation between evaluate nominal government bond
nominal U.S. Treasuries in an illustrative multi-assetU.S. dollar portfolio with a conservative risk
bonds and stocks decreases as exposures in an environment of
target of 6%, investing on a 10-year horizon. For the “lower returns after shock” scenario we use
yields near perceived lower bounds, increased deglobalization, lower-for- our latest capital market assumptions as of April 13, 2020. For allocations under the “yield curve
compromising bonds’ ballast role. longer yields and unprecedented control” scenario, we assume the Federal Reserve is explicitly capping yields at 1.5% and
The underperformance of German policy action. We favoralternatives providing a floor of 0% for them. For the “lower bound” allocation we assume an effective lower
and Japanese bonds in recent such as inflation-linked securities. bound of 0% for the Bloomberg Barclays U.S. government bond index.
equity selloffs illustrates this.
Both these effects lead us to prefer
reduced allocations to government
We can't expect nominal
bonds. We show this for an The cost-benefit calculus of holding
government bonds to provide
illustrative multi-asset portfolio in
the Fading case for nominal bonds as much ballast as they have in nominal government bonds in strategic
chart.If yield curve control were to the past with yields so low. allocations has changed. Their ballast
capyields as well as provide a floor
Vivek Paul properties have weakened because of
for them, returns may be less
punitive. This would result in a Senior Portfolio Strategist, lower-for-longer rates, and the risks are
higher allocation (the third bar) BlackRock Investment
Institute greater due to rising inflation risks.
than with a floor alone (the fourth).
1100 2020 midyear outlook Asset allocation BIIH0620U-1222313-10/16

--- PAGE 12 ---
FOR PUBLIC DISTRIBUTION IN THE U.S., CANADA, HONG KONG, SINGAPORE AND AUSTRALIA.
FOR INSTITUTIONAL, PROFESSIONAL, QUALIFIED INVESTORS AND QUALIFIED CLIENTS IN OTHER PERMITTED COUNTRIES.
Strategic view 2
Outdated diversification
Historical 20-year asset correlations with global equities
Diversification
U.S. equities 96%
EM equities 83%
Globalization led to growing Mainstays of portfolio diversification
cross-border flows and integrated –such as U.S. Treasuries –may be U.S. high yield 57%
consumer markets, with less effective in this role going
differences between companies, forward. By contrast, geopolitical USD EM debt 51%
countries and regions dissipating. bifurcation and higher inflation
Now, the world is becoming more could raise the diversification Local-currency EM debt 48%
fragmented, with the U.S. and potential of assets such as Chinese
China at opposite poles. government bonds and inflation U.S. investment grade 4%
protected securities over time. See
We see return dispersion growing
the Outdated diversification chart. China government bonds -2%
across regions as a result. This
We also see a bigger role for private
creates more diversification
markets, both for diversification and U.S. inflation-linked -5%
potential –as in the rapidly
exposure to real-economy trends.
decoupling U.S. and Chinese tech
U.S. Treasuries -37%
industries. Investors will likely need Bottom line: We believe asset class
strategic exposure to both markets, diversification alone is not going to
as we see two main but separate work anymore. Granular analysis at This information is not intended as a recommendation to invest in any particular asset class or
strategy or as a promise or even estimate of future performance. Source: BlackRock Investment
engines of global growth ahead. the country and sector level is
Institute, June 2020. Notes: The chart shows the historical 20-year correlation of weekly returns
crucial to understanding exposure to
State intervention in economies with global equities. Indexes used: , MSCI USA, MSCI Emerging Markets, Bloomberg Barclays U.S
the structural limits that will be
and policy will vary greatly by High Yield, JP Morgan EMBI Diversified, JP Morgan GBI-EM, Bloomberg Barclays U.S. Credit,
tested in the post-Covid-19 world. Bloomberg Barclays Aggregate China, U.S. Inflation-Linked and U.S. Treasuries.
country. The pandemic is
exacerbating inequalities within
and across countries, and
magnifying protectionist trends.
All this questions the usefulness of The old data sources and Achieving real resilience goes beyond
broad asset classes such as EM, existing playbooks are simply
broad asset class diversification.
and makes “real resilience” critical, not enough to navigate this
through considered diversification changing landscape. It requires considered diversification
across countries and sectors. Most
Maura Farley, CFA across country and sector exposures
portfolios have yet to embrace this
new normal, as investors are Investment grade credit that can thrive in the new normal.
traditionally focused on using analyst –BlackRock
broad asset classes to diversify. Global Fixed Income
1111 2020 midyear outlook Asset allocation BIIH0620U-1222313-11/16

--- PAGE 13 ---
FOR PUBLIC DISTRIBUTION IN THE U.S., CANADA, HONG KONG, SINGAPORE AND AUSTRALIA.
FOR INSTITUTIONAL, PROFESSIONAL, QUALIFIED INVESTORS AND QUALIFIED CLIENTS IN OTHER PERMITTED COUNTRIES.
Strategic view 3
Sustainable assets
Assets under management at ESG-mandated funds, 2014-2020 YTD
Sustainability
1000
The pandemic has supercharged a We believe these setbacks are
750
shift toward sustainability. Assets temporary. We see the “S” (social) in
)
n
at environmental, social and ESG capturing greater attention as
o
governance (ESG)-mandated funds the pandemic spotlights issues such i l
l
in the U.S. exceeded last year’s as employee safety and satisfaction
ib
$ 500
record levels at the end of May, and forces companies to reconsider (
s
even as markets had sold off. their social purpose. In fact, we see t e
See the Sustainable assets chart. sustainability rising beyond the s s
A
mere labels of environmental, social
250
Sustainable flows are in their early
and governance. What matters is the
stages, in our view, and the
resilience of companies to shocks,
sustainability wave will unfold over
and we see sustainability becoming
years and decades. Importantly, a
a core part of the investment 0
return advantage may be gained
during the transition to a more process as a result. 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
YTD
sustainable world, as we argued in Our bottom line: The shift toward
nEquity nBonds n Mixed allocation n Other
Sustainability: the tectonic shift sustainability is not just poised to
transforming investing.We also give sustainable assets a potential
believe markets still under- return advantage for years to come, Sources: BlackRock Investment Institute with data from EPFR, as of June 2020. Notes: The chart
appreciate the potential economic but we also see it altering other shows the global assets under management for ESG-mandated funds. The “other “category
damage caused by climate change return drivers and creating entirely includes money-market and alternatives funds. Data for 2020 through May 31, 2020.
as well as related opportunities, new sources of returns.
such as the rise in renewable
energy. Extreme weather and other
climate events are not yet reflected We have seen a striking degree
A tectonic shift toward sustainability
in valuations, as shown in Getting
of resilience in companies and
physicalof April 2019. portfolios that show greater is poised to give a return advantage to
There have been setbacks in some sustainability characteristics. sustainable assets for years to come —
sustainability-related trends –the
Brian Deese and affect all drivers of returns.
crisis has led some governments to
pause efforts to curb plastics use, Global Head of
for example. Sustainable Investing
1122 2020 midyear outlook Asset allocation BIIH0620U-1222313-12/16

--- PAGE 14 ---
FOR PUBLIC DISTRIBUTION IN THE U.S., CANADA, HONG KONG, SINGAPORE AND AUSTRALIA.
FOR INSTITUTIONAL, PROFESSIONAL, QUALIFIED INVESTORS AND QUALIFIED CLIENTS IN OTHER PERMITTED COUNTRIES.
Directional views
Asset class views
Strategic (long-term) and tactical (6-12 month) views on broad asset classes, June 2020
Strategic Tactical
The broad Asset
view view
Wehave turned neutral on equities on a
strategic horizon given the challenging
view backdrop for earnings and dividend payouts. We
trim our modest overweight in EM and maintain
Equities
our DM exposure at neutral. Tactically, we are
also neutral on equities. We like the quality
Neutral Neutral
factor for its resilience and favor Europe among
cyclical exposures.
We quickly concluded Covid-19 would cause an
We have moved to a strategic overweight on
unprecedented near-term economic contraction –
credit after being underweight for the past year.
but that an overwhelming policy response would help
Sizeable spread widening compensates for the
mitigate the damage and make the cumulative GDP risks of defaults and downgrades, in our view.
shortfall much smaller than that of the GFC. Credit On a tactical horizon, extraordinary measures by
central banks –including purchases of
+1 +1
As a result, we advocated taking advantage of historic corporate debt –are supportive. Risks of a
opportunities in sustainability in late February and temporary liquidity crunch remain, but coupon
income is crucial in a world starved for yield.
risk assets in strategic portfolios in late March. We
have since turned neutral on equities in our strategic The strategic case for holding nominal
framework after the significant rally but keep our government bonds has materially diminished
with yields closer to perceived lower bounds. The
overweight in credit. Higher spread levels make up
“even-lower-for-even-longer“ outlook for rates is
for increased default risk, in our view. Govt
compromising the asset class' ability to act as
bonds
ballast against equity market selloffs in the long
On a tactical basis, reflecting a shorter investment -1 Neutral
run. On a tactical basis, we keep duration at
horizon, we turned cautious on Feb. 28, taking both neutral as unprecedented policy
equities and credit to neutral. We returned to a mild accommodation skews yields to the downside.
pro-risk stance on April 6, overweighting credit and
We are neutral on cash and are using it to
favoring up-in-quality assets with strong policy
support our view on credit. Some cash makes
backstops. This was reflected in a preference for U.S. Cash
sense as a buffer against supply shocks that
stocks, investment grade credit and the quality factor. drive both stocks and bonds lower.
Neutral
We have now downgraded U.S. equities to neutral Non-traditional return streams, including
amid risks of fading fiscal stimulus and election private credit, have the potential to add value
uncertainty, and have turned cautious on emerging and diversification. Many institutional investors
Private remain underinvested in private markets as they
markets. We have upgraded European equities as we
markets Neutral overestimate liquidity risks, in our view. Private
see them offering the most attractive exposure to a assets reflect a diverse array of exposures–but
cyclical upswing. We are keeping our credit valuations and greater inherent uncertainties of
some private assets keep us neutral overall.
overweight because of a global hunt for yield and
central bank purchases. See pages 14 and 15. Note: Views are from a U.S. dollar perspective, June 2020. This material represents an assessment of the market environment
at a specific time and is not intended to be a forecast of future events or a guarantee of future results. This information should
not be relied upon by the reader as research or investment advice regarding any particular funds, strategy or security.
1133 2020 midyear outlook Asset allocation BIIH0620U-1222313-13/16

--- PAGE 15 ---
FOR PUBLIC DISTRIBUTION IN THE U.S., CANADA, HONG KONG, SINGAPORE AND AUSTRALIA.
FOR INSTITUTIONAL, PROFESSIONAL, QUALIFIED INVESTORS AND QUALIFIED CLIENTS IN OTHER PERMITTED COUNTRIES.
Asset class views
In search of income
Selected fixed income yields, 2019-2020
Tactical calls
12%
n Current yield n Range since January 2019
10%
We maintain a modest pro-risk We have downgraded U.S. stocks
stance overall, given our macro to neutral after a strong run of
8%
assessment of the virus shock and outperformance. Risks include policy
the strong policy response. This is fatigue, a re-emergence of the virus,
d
balanced by a preference for up-in- intensifying U.S.-China tensions, le 6%
quality assets that have policy and a turbulent election season.
iY
backstops and are high up the We also cut Asia-ex Japan equities
4%
corporate capital structure. to neutral as renewed U.S.-China
tensions may hurt investor
We prefer credit over equities as a 2%
sentiment as China balances its
result. This includes overweights
growth and stability objectives.
in investment grade credit (our
0%
quality bias), high yield and euro From a factor perspective, we
Government Investment EM local $ EM High
area peripheral debt. The common increase our overweight in quality,
bonds grade debt debt yield
thread: renewed asset purchases for what we see as its likely resilience
by central banks, a stable interest against a range of future outcomes.
Past performance is not a reliable indicator of current or future results. Indexes are unmanaged
rate backdrop and attractive The possibility of a cyclical uptick
and not subject to fees. It is not possible to invest directly in an index. Sources: BlackRock
income in a world where decently has caused us to upgrade the value Investment Institute, with data from Refinitiv, June 2020. Notes: The bars show the range in
yielding assets are hard to find. factor to neutral and downgrade yields for each index from the start of January 2019. Indexes used: Bloomberg Barclays Global
minimum volatility to neutral. We Treasuries and Global Credit; J.P. Morgan GBI-Emerging Market Index and EMBI-Global
We have downgraded EM equities
also remain neutral on momentum. Diversified Index ; and Bloomberg Barclays Global High Yield.
and USD-denominated debt. Many
EM economies are still battling to
contain the virus outbreak and lack
policy space to cushion the blow.
The case for owning credit
We keep our preference for credit, based
We have upgraded European
over equities is clear: Credit
equities to overweight. The region has direct policy support and on renewed asset purchases by central
offers more attractive cyclical
lagged in the recovery. banks, a stable interest rate backdrop
exposure than EMs due to its
public health measures and Beata Harasim and attractive income in a world where
ramped-up policy response.
Senior Investment decently yielding assets are hard to find.
We are raising Japanese equities
Strategist, BlackRock
to neutral for similar reasons. Investment Institute
1144 2020 midyear outlook Asset allocation BIIH0620U-1222313-14/16

--- PAGE 16 ---
FOR PUBLIC DISTRIBUTION IN THE U.S., CANADA, HONG KONG, SINGAPORE AND AUSTRALIA.
FOR INSTITUTIONAL, PROFESSIONAL, QUALIFIED INVESTORS AND QUALIFIED CLIENTS IN OTHER PERMITTED COUNTRIES.
Tactical granular views Change inview
Six to 12-month tactical views on selected assets vs. broad global asset classes by level of conviction, June 2020
Previous New
Asset Underweight Overweight
We downgrade U.S. equities to neutral. Risks of fading fiscal stimulus and an extended epidemic are
United States
threatening to derail the market’s strong run. Renewed U.S.-China tensions and a divisive election also weigh.
We upgrade European equities to overweight. The region is exposed to a cyclical upside as the economy
Europe
restarts, against a backdrop of solid public health measures and a galvanizing policy response.
We upgrade Japanese equities to neutral. We see strong fiscal policy and public health measures allowing for
Japan
rapid normalization.
We downgrade emerging market equities to underweight. We are concerned about the pandemic’s spread and
Emerging markets
see less room or willingness for policy measures to cushion the impact in many –but not all –countries.
We downgrade Asia ex-Japan equities to neutral. Renewed U.S.-China tension is a risk. China’s goal to balance
Equities Asia ex-Japan
growth with financial stability has led to relatively muted policy measures to cushion the virus fallout.
We keep momentum at neutral. The factor is now dominated by tech stocks on the one hand and defensives on
Momentum
the other, giving investors exposure to growth companies and some potential ballast.
We upgrade value to neutral. We see the ongoing restart of economies likely benefiting cyclical assets and
Value
potentially helping value stage a rebound after a long stretch of underperformance.
We downgrade min vol to neutral. The restart of economies is likely to benefit cyclical assets and reduce the
Minimum volatility
need for defensive exposures.
We increase our overweight in quality. We see it as the most resilient exposure against a range of outcomes in
Quality
terms of developments in the pandemic and economy.
We like U.S. Treasuries. Long-term yields are likely to fall further than other developed market peers, even as
U.S. Treasuries
low rates reduce their ability to cushion against risk asset selloffs.
Treasury Inflation- We are neutral on TIPS. A huge decline in rates makes the entry point less attractive. We still see potential for
Protected Securities higher inflation over time and like TIPS in strategic allocations.
We remain underweight bunds as current yield levels provide little cushion against major risk events. Also,
German bunds
potential issuance related to the proposed EU recovery fund could compete with bunds for investment.
We overweight euro area peripheral government bonds despite recent outperformance. We see further rate
Euro area peripherals
compression due to stepped-up quantitative easing by the European Central Bank and other policy actions.
Fixed We overweight global investment grade credit even as valuations have risen. Asset purchases by central banks
Global investment grade
income and a broadly stable rates backdrop support the sector.
We stay overweight high yield as a source of income despite recent underperformance. We avoid energy as
Global high yield
lower oil prices challenge the ability of issuers to refinance near-term maturities.
Emerging market – We have downgraded hard-currency EM debt due to the pandemic’s spread, heavy exposure to energy
hard currency exporters and limited policy space in some emerging economies. Default risks may be underpriced.
Emerging market – We remain neutral on local-currency EM debt for its attractive coupon income. Currencies have adjusted and
local currency valuations have cheapened. A risk of further currency declines remains amid monetary and fiscal easing.
We have turned neutral on Asia fixed income. The pandemic’s containment in many countries and low energy
Asia fixed income
exposure are positives. Renewed U.S.-China tensions and China’s relatively muted policy fallout are risks.
Past performance is not a reliable indicator of current or future results. It is not possible to invest directly in an index.Note: Views are from a U.S. dollar perspective. This material represents an assessment of the market environment
at a specific time and is not intended to be a forecast or guarantee of future results. This information should not be reliedupon as investment advice regarding any particular fund, strategy or security.
1155 2020 midyear outlook Asset allocation BIIH0620U-1222313-15/16

--- PAGE 17 ---
BlackRock Investment Institute
The BlackRock Investment Institute(BII) leverages the firm’s expertise and generates proprietary research to provide insights on the global economy, markets,
geopolitics and long-term asset allocation –all to help our clients and portfolio managers navigate financial markets. BII offers strategic and tactical market views,
publications and digital tools that are underpinned by proprietary research.
General Disclosure:This material is intended for information purposes only, and does not constitute investment advice, a recommendation or an offeror solicitation to purchase or sell any securities to any person in any jurisdiction in which an offer,
solicitation, purchase or sale would be unlawful under the securities laws of such jurisdiction. The opinions expressed are as of June 2020 and are subject to change without notice. Reliance upon information in this material is at the sole discretion ofthe
reader. Investment involves risks.
In the U.S. and Canada, this material is intended for public distribution. In the U.S. and Canada, this material is intended for public distribution. In the UK and outside the EEA: Until 31 December 2020, issued by BlackRock Investment Management (UK)
Limited, authorized and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority. Registered office: 12 Throgmorton Avenue, London, EC2N 2DL. Tel: + 44 (0)20 7743 3000. Registered in England and Wales No. 2020394. For your protection telephone calls are
usually recorded. Please refer to the Financial Conduct Authority website for a list of authorized activities conducted by BlackRock. From 31 December 2020 in the event the United Kingdom and the European Union do not enter into an arrangement
which permits United Kingdom firms to offer and provide financial services into the European Union, the issuer of this material is: BlackRock Investment Management (UK) Limited for all outside of the European Union; and BlackRock (Netherlands) B.V. for
in the European Union. BlackRock (Netherlands) B.V. is authorized and regulated by the Netherlands Authority for the Financial Markets. Registered office Amstelplein1, 1096 HA, Amsterdam, Tel: 020 –549 5200, Tel: 31-20-549-5200. Trade Register
No. 17068311. In Switzerland, this document is marketing material. This document shall be exclusively made available to, and directed at, qualified investors as defined in the Swiss Collective Investment Schemes Act of 23 June 2006, as amended. For
investors in Israel: BlackRock Investment Management (UK) Limited is not licensed under Israel’s Regulation of Investment Advice, Investment Marketing and Portfolio Management Law, 5755-1995 (the “Advice Law”), nor does it carry insurance
thereunder. In South Africa, please be advised that BlackRock Investment Management (UK) Limited is an authorized financial services provider with the South African Financial Services Board, FSP No. 43288. In the DIFC this material can be distributed
in and from the Dubai International Financial Centre (DIFC) by BlackRock Advisors (UK) Limited —Dubai Branch which is regulatedby the Dubai Financial Services Authority (DFSA). This material is only directed at 'Professional Clients’ and no other
person should rely upon the information contained within it. In the Kingdom of Saudi Arabiathis information is only directed to Exempt Persons, Authorized Persons or Investment Institutions, as defined in the relevant implementing regulations issued by
the Capital Markets Authority (CMA). In the United Arab Emiratesthis material is only intended for -natural Qualified Investor as defined by the Securities and Commodities Authority (SCA) Chairman Decision No. 3/R.M. of 2017 concerning Promoting
and Introducing Regulations. Neither the DFSA or any other authority or regulator located in the GCC or MENA region has approvedthis information. In Singapore, this is issued by BlackRock (Singapore) Limited (Co. registration no. 200010143N). This
publication has not been reviewed by the Monetary Authority of Singapore. In Hong Kong, this material is issued by BlackRock Asset Management North Asia Limited and has not been reviewed by the Securities and Futures Commission of Hong Kong. In
South Korea, this material is for distribution to the Qualified Professional Investors (as defined in the Financial Investment Services andCapital Market Act and its sub-regulations). In Taiwan, independently operated by BlackRock Investment Management
(Taiwan) Limited. Address: 28F., No. 100, SongrenRd., Xinyi Dist., Taipei City 110, Taiwan. Tel: (02)23261600. In Japan, this is issued by BlackRock Japan. Co., Ltd. (Financial Instruments Business Operator: The Kanto Regional Financial Bureau.
License No375, Association Memberships: Japan Investment Advisers Association, the Investment Trusts Association, Japan, Japan Securities Dealers Association, Type II Financial Instruments Firms Association.) For Professional Investors only
(Professional Investor is defined in Financial Instruments and Exchange Act). In Australia, issued by BlackRock Investment Management (Australia) Limited ABN 13 006 165 975 AFSL 230 523 (BIMAL). The material provides general information only
and does not take into account your individual objectives, financial situation, needs or circumstances. In China, this material may not be distributed to individuals resident in the People’s Republic of China (“PRC”, for such purposes, excluding Hong Kong,
Macau and Taiwan) or entities registered in the PRC unless such parties have received all the required PRC government approvals to participate in any investment or receive any investment advisory or investment management services. For other APAC
Countries, this material is issued for Institutional Investors only (or professional/sophisticated /qualified investors, as such term mayapply in local jurisdictions) and does not constitute investment advice or an offer or solicitation to purchase or sell in any
securities, BlackRock funds or any investment strategy nor shall any securities be offered or sold to any person in any jurisdiction in which an offer, solicitation, purchase or sale would be unlawful under the securities laws of such jurisdiction. In Latin
America, for institutional investors and financial intermediaries only (not for public distribution). No securities regulator withinLatin America has confirmed the accuracy of any information contained herein. The provision of investment management and
investment advisory services is a regulated activity in Mexico thus is subject to strict rules. For more information on the Investment Advisory Services offered by BlackRock Mexico please refer to the Investment Services Guide available at
http://www.blackrock.com/mx.
© 2020 BlackRock, Inc. All Rights Reserved. BlackRockis a registered trademark of BlackRock, Inc. or its subsidiaries in the United States and elsewhere. All other trademarks arethose of their respective owners.
16 BIIH0620U-1222313-16/16