SOURCE: blackrock/blackrock_2024.pdf
PAGES: 16

--- PAGE 1 ---
2024
Global
Outlook
Grabbing the wheel:
putting money to work
BlackRock
Investment
Institute
FOR PUBLIC DISTRIBUTION IN THE U.S., CANADA, LATIN AMERICA, HONGKONG, SINGAPORE AND AUSTRALIA.
FOR INSTITUTIONAL, PROFESSIONAL, QUALIFIED INVESTORS AND QUALIFIED CLIENTS IN OTHER PERMITTED COUNTRIES.
BIIM1223U/M-3266814-1/16

--- PAGE 2 ---
2024 outlook
The new regime of greater macro and market volatility has resulted in greater
uncertainty and dispersion of returns. We believe an active approach to
managing investment portfolios will carry greater rewards as a result. This is a
sea change from relying on the one-and-done asset allocations that worked so
well during the Great Moderation, the long period of stable growth and inflation.
Philipp Hildebrand Jean Boivin
That period is over. We believe this is a time to grab the investing wheel –and
Vice Chairman — Head —BlackRock
seize the opportunities the new regime has on offer.
BlackRock Investment Institute
Wei Li
Higher rates and greater volatility define the new Seemingly strong U.S. growth actually reflects an
Global Chief Investment Strategist —
regime. It’s a big change from the decade economy that’s still climbing out of a deep hole
BlackRock Investment Institute
following the global financial crisis. Ever- created by the pandemic shock –and tracking a
expanding production capacity allowed central weak growth path. What matters most, in our
Alex Brazier banks to stabilize economies and shore up growth view, is that the environment implies persistently
Deputy Head —BlackRock Investment through loose monetary policy. That helped higher interest rates and tighter financial
Institute suppress macro and market volatility, and stoked conditions. Financial markets are still adjusting to
bull markets in both stocks and bonds. Investors this new regime, and that’s why context is key for
Christopher Kaminker could rely on static, broad asset class allocations managing macro risk, our first theme.
for returns –and gained little advantage from
Head of Sustainable
We think macro insights will be rewarded in the
differentiated insights on the macro outlook.
InvestmentResearch and Analytics –
new regime. Greater volatility and dispersion of
BlackRock InvestmentInstitute
Today, we think the flipside is true. Production returns create space for investment expertise to
Vivek Paul constraints abound. Central banks face tougher shine, as detailed in our second theme –steering
Global Head of Portfolio Research — trade-offs in fighting inflation –and can’t respond portfolio outcomes. This involves being dynamic
to faltering growth like they used to. This leads to
BlackRock Investment Institute with indexing and alpha-seeking strategies, while
a wider set of outcomes, creating greater
staying selective and seeking out mispricings.
uncertainty for central banks and investors.
Contents One way to drive portfolio outcomes is by
There’s a temptation to interpret the new regime
harnessing mega forces–our third theme. These
Summary 2 Mega forces 8-10
by taking a classic business cycle view of the
are five structural forces we see driving returns
Digital disruption 8
current environment, we believe. Markets are
Setting the scene 3-4 Low-carbon 9 now and into the future. They have become
swinging between hopes for a soft landing and
Context is 3 transition important portfolio building blocks, in our view.
recession fears as a result. This misses the point:
everything A fragmenting 10
Structural shift 4 w o r l d the economy is normalizing from the pandemic Our bottom line for 2024: Investors need to take a
and being shaped by structural drivers: shrinking more active approach to their portfolios. This is
Themes 5-7 Focus –Global 11 workforces, geopolitical fragmentation and the not a time to switch on the investing auto pilot;
Managing macro 5 diversification low-carbon transition. The resulting disconnect it’s a time to take the controls. It’s important to be
risk Focus –Real 12 between the cyclical narrative and structural deliberate in taking portfolio risk, in our view, and
Steering portfolio 6 assets
reality is further stoking volatility, we believe. we expect to deploy more risk over the next year.
outcomes
Harnessing mega 7 Tactical playbook 13
forces Views summary 14-15
FOR PUBLIC DISTRIBUTION IN THE U.S., CANADA, LATIN AMERICA, HONGKONG, SINGAPORE AND AUSTRALIA.
FOR INSTITUTIONAL, PROFESSIONAL, QUALIFIED INVESTORS AND QUALIFIED CLIENTS IN OTHER PERMITTED COUNTRIES. 2
BIIM1223U/M-3266814-2/16

--- PAGE 3 ---
Setting the scene
Context is
Strong employment gains…
U.S. payroll changes vs. typical expansion, 2022-2023 and 2019-2023
everything
Monthly change Cumulative change (right)
Typical expansion (right)
) 1000 105
s
d
Multiple times in 2023, market hopes have been revived that the U.S. n
a
economy can achieve a soft landing –or inflation getting back to the Fed’s s
u
800 104 nI
o d
2% target without a recession. What’s fuelingthose hopes? h e
t x
In contrast to other major economies, the U.S. grew at a robust clip in the ( s llo 600 103
n
a J (
third quarter of 2023. Core inflation has fallen sharply. And nearly 7 million r y 2 .
new jobs have been created since January 2022 –a phenomenal pace of jobs a p 400 102 0
growth compared with a typical economic expansion. See the chart top right. n i
e g 200 101 0 1
= 2
2
But zoom out and look at the bigger picture (chart below right): The economy n 0
a )
has just been climbing out of the pandemic hole: h
C 0 100
• Some 22 million jobs were lost when the pandemic struck. Strong job 2022 2023
gains since then largely reflect the recouping of those lost. The level of
employment is well below the track we would have expected to be on
before the pandemic.
…but still climbing out of a deep pandemic hole
• Looking at broader economic activity, the U.S. economy has grown by less
than 1.8% a year, on average, since the pandemic. That’s well below the
trend we would have expected pre-pandemic –and well below where the ) 0105
consensus and Federal Reserve had expected. That’s nothing to be excited 0 1
about. = 0100
2
• This resulted in even with more muted growth, historically low 0
2
unemployment and higher inflation. .b 95
e
F
Our bottom line: Something has changed –and it’s structural in nature. We ( x 90
e
are on a weaker growth path and got here with more inflation, higher interest d
n
rates and much higher debt levels. The upshot for investors? We thinkthe key I 85
is to focus on how the economy and markets are adjusting to the new regime. 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
Adopting the typical cyclical playbook may be misguided. Actual payrolls Typical expansion
Source: BlackRock Investment Institute, U.S. Bureau of LaborStatistics, with data from Haver Analytics, December
2023. Notes: The charts show U.S. nonfarm payrolls. The orange lines show the actual level of total nonfarm payroll
employment indexed to two different start dates: in the upper chart, January 2022=100 and in the lower chart
February 2020=100. The yellow lines in both charts show hypothetical payroll employment as if the economy had
continued to grow at the average rate observed during U.S. post-1945 expansions. The black bars in the upper chart
show actual monthly payroll gains (in thousands) since January 2022.
FOR PUBLIC DISTRIBUTION IN THE U.S., CANADA, LATIN AMERICA, HONGKONG, SINGAPORE AND AUSTRALIA. FOR INSTITUTIONAL, PROFESSIONAL, QUALIFIED INVESTORS AND QUALIFIED CLIENTS IN OTHER PERMITTED COUNTRIES. 3
BIIM1223U/M-3266814-3/16

--- PAGE 4 ---
Setting the scene
Structural shift Yield swings on short-term surprises
Sensitivity of U.S. 10-year yield to economic surprises, 2003-2023
0.6
Markets have been flip-flopping The workforce is growing more
between hopes for a soft economic slowly in Europe and China, too, and
landing and fears of yet higher rates it’s one of several long-term
0.4
that ultimately result in recession. production constraints we think will
y
This has created volatility, as the prevent many economies from t
iv
chart shows. growing at their pre-pandemic pace it
is 0.2
without sparking renewed inflation. n
The U.S. economy has been e
S
navigating two large shocks, in our Rising production costs in a
view. The first was the pandemic. fragmenting world will also push up 0
Over the past two years, most new inflation across major economies
jobs created have been due to the over the longer term, in our view. And
restart of activity after shutdowns. the transition to a low-carbon -0.2
economy is creating price pressures 2003 2008 2013 2018 2023
A shift in consumer spending drove
as the energy system is being
up inflation by creating a mismatch rewired. C C h h a a r r t t t t a a k k e e a a w w a a y y : : G D e a t t t a in s g u r in p f r l i a s t e i s o n a r a e l l d t r h iv e i n w g a y th b e a s c h k a d r o p w es n t , t o
between what people wanted to buy target –the dotted green line –would require the Fed to deal
sustained swings in U.S. 10-year Treasury yields of the past two
and what the economy was set up to This means central banks face a a d e s c ig a n d i e fi s c . a W n e t b b l e o l w ie v to e t t h h e is e r c e o fl n e o c m ts y g . reater uncertainty from
produce. That mismatchis now tough trade-off. If they want to stop investors still trying to view the economy through the lens of a
resolving, and inflation has been inflation resurging, they will need to typical business cycle.
falling as a result. keep policy tight. We think policy
Source: BlackRock Investment Institute, with data from LSEG Datastream, December 2023. Notes: The chart
rates are poised to settle well above
As the effects of the pandemic shock shows how sensitive the U.S. 10-year Treasury yield is to economic surprises. This is calculated by using
pre-pandemic norms. Ultimately, we
recede, the effects of the second, regression analysis to estimate the relationship between U.S. 10-year Treasury yields and the Citi Economics
see central banks living with higher Surprise Index over a rolling six-month window. The sensitivity is how closely movements of the U.S. 10-year
more structural one are becoming
inflation amid hefty government Treasury yield align with fluctuations in the Citi Economics Surprise Index, relative to how much the Surprise
clearer: A worker shortage has index itself varies. This analysis is only an estimate of the relationship between the 10-year Treasury yield and
spending and debt loads.
emerged, as a growing share of the economic surprises. Past performance is no guarantee of future results.
U.S. population ages into retirement. Our bottom line: This is a regime of
slower growth, higher inflation,
That’s why unemployment is at If central banks want to stop inflation
higher interest rates –and greater
historic lows –even though U.S.
volatility. from resurging, we think they will need
growth has averaged well below its
pre-Covid rate. See page 3. to keep holding back economic activity
with higher policy rates.
FOR PUBLIC DISTRIBUTION IN THE U.S., CANADA, LATIN AMERICA, HONGKONG, SINGAPORE AND AUSTRALIA.
FOR INSTITUTIONAL, PROFESSIONAL, QUALIFIED INVESTORS AND QUALIFIED CLIENTS IN OTHER PERMITTED COUNTRIES. 4
BIIM1223U/M-3266814-4/16

--- PAGE 5 ---
Theme 1
Managing Adjusting to new regime
Dispersion of U.S. equity analyst earnings estimates, 1995-2023
macro risk
10%
8%
This is a regime shift, not about First, markets are slowly adjusting to
whether a recession happens. So it structurally higher inflation and n
o
doesn’t make sense for investors to policy rates, but it is uneven. U.S. 10- is
wait for the macro environment to year yields surged to 16-year highs r e p 6%
s
improve, in our view. We think around 5%, for example. But most iD
investors should seek to neutralize DM equity earnings yields haven’t
4%
macro exposures or –if they have risen much. This adjustment matters
high conviction –be deliberate more than if a technical recession
about which exposures they take. occurs, in our view, and keeps us
2%
cautious on broad exposures.
We see more scope to outperform 1995 2000 2005 2010 2015 2020
the market now than in the less Second, structurally lower growth
volatile Great Moderation. and higher rates pose a problem for Chart Dtaiskpeearswioany:Gett M in e g d i i a n n fl a 1 t 9 io 9 n 5- a 2 l 0 l 2 th 0 e way M ba e c d k ia d n o s w in n c t e o 2 020
Production constraints abound. ballooning U.S. government debt. If target –the dotted green line –would require the Fed to deal
Central banks face tougher trade- borrowing costs from higher yields aC shiagnrtif itcaaknet abwloawy t:oD thuer iencgo nthoem Gy.reat Moderation, analyst views
offs in fighting inflation and can’t stay near 5%, the government could of expected company earnings were much more grouped
respond to faltering growth like spend more on interest payments together outside of major shocks. Now they are more
before. We think this leads to a wider than Medicare in a few years. This dispersed, showing that an environment of higher inflation
dispersion of views. increases the long-run risk of higher and interest rates makes the outlook harder to read.
inflation as central banks become
For example, analyst estimates of
less aggressive on inflation.
future S&P 500 equity earnings are Source: BlackRock Investment Institute, LSEG Datastream, December 2023. Notes: The chart shows the
aggregate standard deviation of analyst earnings estimates for S&P companies. The green line shows the
more dispersed now than before the We also see a rise in term premium,
median from 1995 to end January 2020, the orange line shows the median since February 2020
pandemic, according to LSEG data. or the compensation investors
See the chart. They are having a demand for the risk of holding long-
harder time reading the earnings term bonds. This, plus our
The macro outlook is more uncertain.
outlook. So macro insight is likely to expectation of more yield volatility,
be more rewarded. keeps us tactically neutral and Exposures to macro risk can be punished
strategically underweight long-term
Still, we think investors need to be as well as rewarded, so we think
U.S. Treasuries. Our largest strategic
alert to risks around macro
overweight is instead to inflation- investors should be deliberate about
exposures in the new regime.
linked bonds.
which exposures they take.
FOR PUBLIC DISTRIBUTION IN THE U.S., CANADA, LATIN AMERICA, HONGKONG, SINGAPORE AND AUSTRALIA.
FOR INSTITUTIONAL, PROFESSIONAL, QUALIFIED INVESTORS AND QUALIFIED CLIENTS IN OTHER PERMITTED COUNTRIES. 5
BIIM1223U/M-3266814-5/16

--- PAGE 6 ---
Theme 2
Steering portfolio More dynamic
Hypothetical impact of rebalancing on U.S. equity returns
outcomes 4.0%
n
r 3.0%
u
Heightened volatility and dispersion Investors can also thrive in the new t e
r
call for an active approach to regime by getting granular with la
c
managing portfolios, in our view. portfolio allocations. For example, it 2.0%
e
returns on short-term Treasuries h
Structurally higher policy rates t o
have outpaced those on long-term p
should eventually mean higher y
bonds since mid-July 2023, H 1.0%
returns on all assets. But not all
according to LSEG data, as investors
asset valuations have adjusted, we
started to demand compensation for
think. And static exposures to broad
taking long-term interest rate risk. 0.0%
asset classes are unlikely to deliver
Lastly, dispersion of returns has Old regime (2016-2019) New regime (2020-2023)
the risk-adjusted returns they did
risen in the new regime. This means
during the Great Moderation’s bull Buy and hold Yearly rebalance Semi-annual rebalance
security selection is likely to be more
markets in both stocks and bonds. C C h h a a r r t t t t a a k k e e a a w w a a y y : : G Ta e k tt in in g g a i n m fl o a r t e io d n y a n l a l m th i e c w in a v y e b st a i c n k g d a o p w p n ro t a o c h in
impactful, in our view. We see a wide
target –the dotted green line –would require the Fed to deal
in the new regime would have likely outperformed a buy-and-hold
We see alpha, or above-benchmark arsenal of tools and strategies to
a significant blow to the economy.
strategy to a much greater extent than before the pandemic.
returns, playing a bigger role in the help outperform static portfolios.
new regime –and believe a more Investors can blend indexes to build
Past performance is not a reliable indicator of future performance. Indexreturns do not account for fees. It is
dynamic portfolio approach is core allocations, implement alpha
not possible to invest directly in an index. Source: BlackRock Investment Institute, MSCI with data from
warranted when cash offers ideas and hedge risk. Bloomberg, December 2023. Notes: The chart shows monthly U.S. equity returns –based on the MSCI USA –
attractive returns. in the old and new regime under three scenarios: keeping the holdings unchanged (buy-and-hold), yearly
Our bottom line: Investment rebalances and semi-annual rebalances. The rebalances optimize the portfolio for returns, diversification and
What if you were able to accurately expertise is likely to give portfolios risk with perfect foresight of equity sector returns in the MSCI USA index. This analysis uses historical returns
predict U.S. equity sector returns an edge in the new regime. and has been conducted with the benefit of hindsight. Future returns may vary and these results may not be
the same other asset classes. It does not consider potential transaction costs that may detract from returns. It
with perfect foresight? Acting on this
also does not represent an actual portfolio and is shown for illustrative purposes only.
hypothetical ability more frequently
Mega forces and the macro:
would have paid off much more
these are inspirations, not
since 2020 (see the right bars in the We believe the new regime rewards an
constraints, in finding
chart) than in the four years prior left
alpha.” active approach to portfolios. We don’t
bars). The upshot? Good insight,
acted upon in a timely manner, has Raffaele Savi see one-and-done strategies working as
Global Head of
yielded greater rewards than buy-
BlackRock in the past.
and-hold strategies since 2020.
Systematic
FOR PUBLIC DISTRIBUTION IN THE U.S., CANADA, LATIN AMERICA, HONGKONG, SINGAPORE AND AUSTRALIA.
FOR INSTITUTIONAL, PROFESSIONAL, QUALIFIED INVESTORS AND QUALIFIED CLIENTS IN OTHER PERMITTED COUNTRIES. 6
BIIM1223U/M-3266814-6/16

--- PAGE 7 ---
Theme 3
Harnessing mega Mega force at work
S&P tech sector vs. S&P 500 performance, 2023 year-to-date
forces
60%
50%
We think mega forces are another The far-reaching consequences of 40%
n
way to steer portfolios –and think mega forces create new investment r
u 30%
about portfolio building blocks that opportunities –and marketscan be t e
r
transcend traditional asset classes. slow to price them in. la 20%
t
They stand out as drivers of o
Capital pressures on banks are T
corporate profits on their own, in our 10%
opening a pathfor private credit and
view, and so could offer potential
non-banks to fill the lending void – 0%
opportunities that may be
part of the future of finance. Private
uncorrelated to macro cycles. -10%
credit can be an illiquid asset class
Jan 23 Apr 23 Jul 23 Oct 23
These forces are already reshaping not suitable for all investors.
markets. Take digital disruption
Aging populations in major S&P 500 Technology S&P 500
and artificial intelligence (AI). The Chart takeaway:Getting inflation all the way back down to
economies are poised to limit how
chart to the right illustrates the tCahrgaertt – tathkee daowtateyd: gInrveeesnt olirn een –thwuosuialds mre qfouri rAeI tahned F deidg ittoa dl teeaclh has
much countries can produce and
outperformance of U.S. tech relative ao fsfsigent itfhicea dnrta bgl oowf rtios itnhge yeiceoldnso. mThya.t has pushed U.S. tech stocks to
grow –depending on how they adapt
to the broader market this year. We easily outshine the broader market in 2023.
in demographic divergence.
think this reflects how quickly
markets embrace such fundamental Climate resilience is emerging as a
shifts in the market outlook. new investment theme within the
low-carbon transition, in our view.
We think the winners and losers can Past performance is not a reliable indicator of future results. Indexreturns do not account for fees. It is not
As climate damages mount, we are possible to invest directly in an index. Source: BlackRock Investment Institute, with data from LSEG
broaden the AI tech stack. When
seeing increased demand for Datastream, December 2023. Notes: The chart shows the total year-to-date returns in U.S. dollar terms for
incorporating this mega force into the S&P 500 Technology sector (orange line) and the S&P 500 index (yellow line).
solutions that help economies
our tactical views, it can push up our
prepare for, adapt to and withstand
stance on DM equities closer to
climate hazards, and rebuild after
neutral even if the macro backdrop
damages. See page 9. Mega forces are key drivers of the new
isn’t rosy. See pages 8 and 14.
We see geopolitical fragmentation regime, affecting the long-term growth
That’s just one example of why we
and economic competition driving
think harnessing mega forces will and inflation outlook and creating shifts
a surge of investment in strategic
enable investors to outperform
sectors like tech, energy and in profitability. We see them as a source
simple, static allocations.
defense. See page 10.
of return now and far into the future.
FOR PUBLIC DISTRIBUTION IN THE U.S., CANADA, LATIN AMERICA, HONGKONG, SINGAPORE AND AUSTRALIA.
FOR INSTITUTIONAL, PROFESSIONAL, QUALIFIED INVESTORS AND QUALIFIED CLIENTS IN OTHER PERMITTED COUNTRIES. 7
BIIM1223U/M-3266814-7/16

--- PAGE 8 ---
Mega forces
AI: intelligence The AI technology stack
BlackRock view of tech need to develop AI applications, December 2023
App Apps AI applications open to thousands of companies.
revolution software
Storage, management and manipulation of the
Data infrastructure huge data sets being used.
Model The data used to train and feed AI applications –
Advances in computing hardware That suggests we may be just at the Data
infra both public and proprietary.
and deep learning innovations led cusp of this intelligence revolution,
The proprietary or open-source large language
to an inflection point for AI in late in our view. Implications likely go Foundation models
models being built.
2022. We think advances from here beyond the near-term focus on
Infrastructure needed to train AI models on large
are likely to be exponential as productivity gains. Our early
Cloud infrastructure
clusters of high-performance machines
innovation snowballs. research shows a potential positive Compute
correlation between a pickup in AI infra Manufacturers of chips and semiconductor that
Yet tracking investment Semis and hardware
patents and broad earnings growth.. are the building blocks of computational power.
opportunities across geographies
We also find that investors are
and sectors comes with high
ascribing a rising economic value to Chart takeaway: We see investment opportunities moving up
uncertainty. The technology “stack”
these patents. Yet not all patents the stack as technology evolves –from hardware manufacturers
–layers of technology built on top
lead to profitable enterprises, and to digital and data infrastructure and ultimately to applications.
of each other that enable further
their future value is highly uncertain.
innovation —may offer a roadmap
to help assess the investment We’re overweight the AI theme in DM
opportunities. See the chart. stocks on a six-to-12-month
horizon. We see the tech sector’s
The bottom layer (in orange in the
earnings resilience persisting and Source: BlackRock Investment Institute, December 2023. Notes: The schematic shows the technologies we
schematic) covers cloud
expect it to be major driver of overall think will be needed to develop AI applications. Each layer builds on the one preceding as technologies get
infrastructure and chips –the
“stacked” on top of one another, enabling further innovation. The schematic is for illustrative purposes only
U.S. corporate profit growth in 2024.
building blocks. The second layer and intended as a guide based on what we know today. As the AI ecosystem evolves, some categories may be
(in yellow) covers models, data and replaced by newer ones. References to securities are shown for illustrative purposes only and should not be
construed as investment advice or a recommendation to buy or sell.
data infrastructure. The last layer –
AI is a major positive -
in white –comprises the apps that
both for earnings growth
harness the innovation. We think
and productivity.”
we are somewhere between the
We think the overarching race to build
first and second layers, with the Simona Paravani-
last one likely coming next. We see Mellinghoff the smartest machines is akin to a
Global CIO,
the entire tech industry –led by a
BlackRock Multi- revolution – like the industrial and
handful of large tech firms –
Asset Strategies &
pivoting their business focus to AI. information revolutions of the past.
Solutions
FOR PUBLIC DISTRIBUTION IN THE U.S., CANADA, LATIN AMERICA, HONGKONG, SINGAPORE AND AUSTRALIA.
FOR INSTITUTIONAL, PROFESSIONAL, QUALIFIED INVESTORS AND QUALIFIED CLIENTS IN OTHER PERMITTED COUNTRIES. 8
BIIM1223U/M-3266814-8/16

--- PAGE 9 ---
Mega forces
Investing in Real physical damages mount
U.S. events with inflation-adjusted losses of $1 billion, 1985-2023
climate resilience 25 125
n
lb
120 100
$
r C
e o
v s
The low-carbon transitionis one of Just how big will those damages be? o s 15 75 U t
the five mega forces playing out in It’s hard to put a number on the t n S
e D
m
B
Tr
l
a
a
a
r
n
c
k
k
s
e
R
it
t
o
i
s
o
c
t
n
k
o d
S
In
a
c
v
e
y
e
.
n
s
W
a
t
r
m
e
io
l
e
a
t
n
u
o
t
n
h
I
c
n
e
h
s
lp
e
ti
d
tu
t
t
h
e
e i
b
d
m
e
a
i
m
p
n
a
g
a
c
.
g
t
T
e
o
h
i
n
e
s
h
g
q
u
r
u
o
m
a
w
n
a
i
t
n
n
if
g
i
h
a
f
e
b
a
a
l
s
e
l
t
t
,
h
e
a
c
a
s
o
n
n
t
d
h
o
e
w
m
c
e
i
h
c
ll
a
-
rt
v e
f o
r e b
1
5
0
2
5
5
0
s n
oilli b
investors navigate its risks and shows. We already see demand m
u
opportunities, with a focus on the growing for products and services N
energy transition. This is not just that build climate resilience. Markets 0 0
about identifying opportunities in may be underappreciating how this 1985 1995 2005 2015
renewables; traditional energy can become a mainstream
Number of events Total cost (right)
companies can also outperform, investment theme over time.
especially when there are supply-
In our recent paper, we divide this Chart takeaway: The number of climate-related events with
demand mismatches.
theme into three sub-themes: damages totalingmore than $1 billion has steadily increased over
The energy transition tends to get assessing and quantifying risks, the past roughly three decades. The U.S. hit a record number of
the headlines, but we see a related managing risk and rebuilding such events just nine months into 2023.
theme becoming an important physical infrastructure. That helps
investment story: climate us build a framework to identify
Sources: NOAA National Centersfor Environmental Information (NCEI) U.S. Billion-Dollar
resilience.This is the ability to opportunities that cut across Weather and Climate Disasters (2023), December2023. Notes: The bars (yellow) show the
prepare for, adapt to and withstand sectors, such as industrials and number of climate events with losses greater than US$1 billion. The data include droughts,
climate hazards, and to rebuild technology, and asset classes. flooding, severe storms, hurricanes, wildfires, winter storms and freezes. The orange line shows
after climate damage. Think early the total cost as a 10-year rolling average. The data are adjusted for inflation using 2022 dollars.
monitoring systems to predict All currency figures are in U.S. dollars.
We see opportunities in
floods, air conditioning to cope
climate resilience solutions
with heatwaves, or retrofitting
offering flood, fire and drought
buildings to better withstand Markets may be underappreciating the
resistance.”
extreme weather. With climate
prospects for climate resilience to
damages set to keep mountingin Olivia Markham
coming years, it will take extensive Portfolio Manager, become a mainstream investment
investment to build society’s Thematic and Sectors,
theme over time, we think.
resilience to them. BlackRock
Fundamental Equity
FOR PUBLIC DISTRIBUTION IN THE U.S., CANADA, LATIN AMERICA, HONGKONG, SINGAPORE AND AUSTRALIA.
FOR INSTITUTIONAL, PROFESSIONAL, QUALIFIED INVESTORS AND QUALIFIED CLIENTS IN OTHER PERMITTED COUNTRIES. 9
BIIM1223U/M-3266814-9/16

--- PAGE 10 ---
Mega forces
Deepening Paying more attention
BlackRock Geopolitical Risk Dashboard, 2018-2023
1.5
fragmentation
1
Cascading crises have accelerated War in the Middle East, ongoing
global fragmentation and the rise conflict between Russia and Ukraine,
0.5
of competing geopolitical and and structural competition between e
r
economic blocs, in our view. Our the U.S. and China mean increased o
c
S
BlackRock Geopolitical Risk geopolitical risks. The number of 0
Indicatoris elevated –see chart – volatile situations worldwide is the
suggesting markets are paying highest in decades, according to the
more attention than before. UN. And 2024 is set be the biggest -0.5
election year in history, with more
Should investors hunker down as a
than half the world population
result –and keep their investments -1
voting. We see the U.S. and Taiwan
close to home? We don’t think so. 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
elections as particularly significant.
The new mantra of resilience over
Chart takeaway:Market attention to geopolitics has hit its highest
economic efficiency may raise Navigating this new world order isn’t
this year, according to our BlackRock Geopolitical Risk Indicator.
costs –but also presents necessarily about avoiding risks or
opportunities. Countries like positioning for specific events, in our
Vietnam and Mexico could benefit view, but about whole portfolio
from the diversification of supply strategies that aim to both seize its
chains, in our view. And we see opportunities and mitigate risks. Source: BlackRock Investment Institute. December 2023. The BlackRock Geopolitical Risk Indicator (BGRI)
opportunities in the Gulf states, tracks the relative frequency of brokerage reports (via LSEG) and financial news stories (Dow Jones News)
associated with specific geopolitical risks. We adjust for whether the sentiment in the text of articles is positive
India and Brazil. They are pursuing
or negative, and then assign a score. This score reflects the level of market attention to each risk versus a 5-
ties with multiple blocs and have year history. We assign a heavier weight to brokerage reports than other media sources since we want to
valuable resources and supply measure the market's attention to any particular risk, not the public’s.
chain inputs. Repeated shocks are driving
long-term, structural changes
In this more competitive world, we
in the world order.”
expect a surge of investment in The rewiring of economic ties along
strategic sectors like tech, energy,
geopolitical lines is set to accelerate. We
defense and infrastructure. We also Tom Donilon
see opportunities in firms with Chairman, BlackRock are focused on the investment
expertise in managing and Investment Institute
opportunities this creates.
reducing cybersecurity risks.
FOR PUBLIC DISTRIBUTION IN THE U.S., CANADA, LATIN AMERICA, HONG KONG, SINGAPORE AND AUSTRALIA.
FOR INSTITUTIONAL, PROFESSIONAL, QUALIFIED INVESTORS AND QUALIFIED CLIENTS IN OTHER PERMITTED COUNTRIES. 10
BIIM1223U/M-3266814-10/16

--- PAGE 11 ---
Focus –Regions
Moving away Reforms take root
Japan: equity relative performance by price-to-book ratio, 2023
from home
110
)
0
0
1
We see greater dispersion of We have maintained a broad =
3
returns unfolding across global preference for emerging market 2 100
0
markets, creating opportunities for (EM) assets over DMs. EMs are not 2
,4
investors who look beyond their disconnected from global growth, so n
a
home markets. We get selective selectivity is important, in our view. J 90
(
across regions and countries, x
Mega forces may offer abundant EM e d
assessing valuations, earnings n
equity opportunities. India’s system I
prospects and what’s in the price.
of digital payments bodes well for 80
Take Japan. We think 2023 was a the future of finance there. We Jan-23 Apr-23 Jul-23 Oct-23
pivotal yearfor the country. We believe it could pave the way for a
Very low Low Mid High Very high
upgraded Japan twice this year on credit boom as banks adapt lending.
appealing valuations, earnings We think the low-carbon transition Chart takeaway: Shares of Japanese firms with low price-to-
growth, and as corporate reforms presents an important opportunity
book ratios have outperformed as investors anticipate such
aimed at boosting shareholder take for Latin America, especially for
companies will double down on steps to boost shareholder value.
root. It remains our strongest DM countries that hold large reserves of
equity view. Investors are latching key resources like copper and Past performance is no guarantee of future results. Source: BlackRock Investment Institute, with
on, partly explaining the broad lithium. And U.S. companies data from QUICK and Daiwa. December 2023. Notes: The chart illustrates the year-to-date
market’s surge this year. bringing operations and production rebased performance of the TOPIX index constituents, grouped into five buckets based on their
price-to-book (P/B) ratios. The process of grouping involves arranging the constituents in
closer to home could benefit
Under the hood, a more nuanced ascending order by their P/B ratios and then dividing them into five market-cap-weighted
countries like Mexico.
move is unfolding. The chart shows buckets, ensuring each bucket represents an equal segment of the market's total capitalization.
the outperformance this year of For example, the “Very low” bucket comprises constituents with lowest P/B ratio. The buckets are
rebalanced monthly.
companies that sit at the low end of Japan and India are among
price-to-book ratios –a reflection the beneficiaries from
of investors getting in front of more
global fragmentation.”
Selectivity across geographies is an
value-enhancing measures coming
at such firms. We still see overall Belinda Boa important layer of our playbook that
valuations as attractive. One risk is CIO of Emerging
Markets, BlackRock aims to achieve above-benchmark
potentially tighter monetary policy
Fundamental Equity
–and why we prefer to take equity returns in the new regime.
risk without hedging for currency.
FOR PUBLIC DISTRIBUTION IN THE U.S., CANADA, LATIN AMERICA, HONGKONG, SINGAPORE AND AUSTRALIA. FOR
INSTITUTIONAL, PROFESSIONAL, QUALIFIED INVESTORS AND QUALIFIED CLIENTS IN OTHER PERMITTED COUNTRIES. 11
BIIM1223U/M-3266814-11/16

--- PAGE 12 ---
Focus –Real assets
Real estate Private lags public
Real estate capitalization rates, 2017-2023
opportunities 6.0%
s
e
t
a
We think inflation will be The reality? Cap rates for U.S. core r5.0%
n
structurally higher and see real real estate funds have moved less o
it
estate and infrastructure playing a than publicly traded real estate a
z
key role in strategic portfolios as a investment trusts (REITs). See the
ila
result. Why? Some real asset values chart. We think this shows public
t ip 4.0%
a
or cash flows are linked to markets better reflect the new C
measures that correlate with backdrop.
inflation –think property prices or
Cap rates at the aggregate level 3.0%
rental income.
aren’t the full story given large 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
But the macro matters here too. dispersion across geographies,
U.S. core real estate funds U.S. REITs
Low interest rates –previously a sectors and strategy types. Plus, the
benefit to returns –have given way nature of the underlying assets is Chart takeaway: Real estate investment trusts (REITs)
to structurally higher financing why they differ in their relative valuations have reacted to rising interest rates faster and further
costs. The question now: how much attraction. U.S. REITs invest in a than private real estate. We think that makes publicly listed REITs
is in the price today? We had wider array of properties than core more attractive relative to private real estate.
expected valuations for core real real estate funds, such as data
estate to adjust to rising interest centers and healthcare. That means
rates and financing costs –leading some REITs could be more resilient
us to turn cautious on the asset to a weaker economy –and is why
class in June 2022. it’s key to go beyond a simple Sources: BlackRock Investment Institute, NCREIF and Greenstreet, December2023. Notes: The
mantra of buying real estate in chart shows historical capitalization rates (green line) and REITs (pink line). Past performance is
Valuations have adjusted –but we
inflationary times. no guarantee of future results.
think there’s more to go.
Capitalization (cap) rates –the Our bottom line: Some public real
ratio of a property’s income to its asset prices have adjusted more
Real estate valuations have adjusted
price –are the commonly than some private counterparts.
referenced valuation metric for real Capturing the opportunities requires differently to the new regime. We think
estate. As rates and yields surged, selectivity, understanding what’s in
structurally higher inflation should
we expected cap rates for both the price and having the agility to
private and public real estate to shift between real assets at a benefit real assets in strategic portfolios
rise, too. granular level, in our view.
longer term.
FOR PUBLIC DISTRIBUTION IN THE U.S., CANADA, LATIN AMERICA, HONGKONG, SINGAPORE AND AUSTRALIA. FOR
INSTITUTIONAL, PROFESSIONAL, QUALIFIED INVESTORS AND QUALIFIED CLIENTS IN OTHER PERMITTED COUNTRIES. 12
BIIM1223U/M-3266814-12/16

--- PAGE 13 ---
Views
Behind the views
Explaining our approach to tactical asset allocation
Broad and static investment solutions won’t take you as far in this new regime as in the past, in our view. We think it calls for selectivity and granularity
instead. We further extend our investment playbook to include alpha.
Broad asset allocation Alpha and granularity Harnessing mega forces
We start by determining asset We then assess exposures that are We factor in the effects of mega forces –
allocations based on our assessment of outside the macro allocations –what we powerful, structural forces that
the macro outlook on a tactical horizon call macro-neutral exposures. This can transcend the macro backdrop. We
of six to 12 months –and what’s in the include alpha and granular views in believe many are already starting to
price. We then implement our portfolio sectors and countries. drive returns and corporate profits –and
views across broad exposures to asset go beyond asset classes.
classes. We see alpha opportunities for potential
returns where broad asset class or
We are in a new regime of greater macro macro returns are less attractive. We
and market volatility. We don’t think think the uncertainty of the new regime
broad asset classes will deliver the same may reward insights on the macro
returns as before when central banks environment. We also narrow down
were loosening policy and spurring joint regional, sectoral and industry
bull markets in stocks and bonds. preferences and opportunities, with the
aim of producing above-benchmark
returns.
Implications Implications Implications
• We stay underweight DM equities • We see potential alpha in DM and EM • We stay overweight the DM artificial
• We stay overweight short-term bonds equities intelligence theme
• We stay underweight high-grade • To get granular, we like sectors such
credit as technology and financials
This material represents an assessment of the market environment at a specific time and is not intended to be a forecast of future events or a guarantee of future results. This information should not be relied upon by the reader as research or
investment advice regarding any funds, strategy or security in particular. The statements on alpha do not consider fees. Source: BlackRock Investment Institute, December 2023.
FOR PUBLIC DISTRIBUTION IN THE U.S., CANADA, LATIN AMERICA, HONGKONG, SINGAPORE AND AUSTRALIA.
FOR INSTITUTIONAL, PROFESSIONAL, QUALIFIED INVESTORS AND QUALIFIED CLIENTS IN OTHER PERMITTED COUNTRIES. 13
BIIM1223U/M-3266814-13/16

--- PAGE 14 ---
Views
Big calls
Dynamic
Our highest conviction views on tactical (6-12 month) and strategic (long-term) horizons, December 2023
Tactical Reasons
and nimble
• Our macro view keeps us underweight, but we see the AI theme and alpha
DM equities
potential has taken us closer to a neutral view. See below.
• The income cushion bonds provide has increased across the board in a
Our core conviction is that investors need to be more
Incomein fixed income higher rate environment. We like short-term bonds and are now neutral
dynamic with portfolios in the new regime. The one- long-term U.S. Treasuries as we see two-way risks ahead.
and-done approach to asset allocation simply won’t
• We favor getting granular by geography (see page 11) and like Japan
work as it did before.
Geographic granularity equities in DM. Within EM, we like India and Mexico as beneficiaries of
We have updated how we present both our tactical mega forces even as relative valuations appear rich.
and strategic views to focus on where we have the
Strategic Reasons
strongest conviction on both time horizons –but with
an emphasis on staying nimble and getting granular.
• We think private credit is going to earn lending share as banks retreat –and
We also break down how we now build on our macro Private credit at attractive returns relative to credit risk.
view at the asset class level to incorporate a view of
• We see inflation staying closer to 3% in the new regime than policy targets,
where we see potential return opportunities outside of Inflation-linked bonds
making this one of our strongest views on a strategic horizon.
such broad exposures.
• We overall prefer short-term bonds over long term. That’s due to more
On a tactical horizon, our overall macro view would Short-and medium-term
uncertain and volatile inflation, heightened bond market volatility and
keep us underweight DM equities as a standalone bonds
weaker investor demand.
because we expect growth to stay stagnant with
persistent inflation, prompting central banks to keep
Deep dive of including the mega force overweight on overall U.S. equity view
policy rates higher for longer. But we find greater
alpha opportunities in DM stocks. When Other (AI
incorporating the AI theme and alpha, our overall view theme and
We are underweight
is more neutral on U.S. equities. See the example on alpha)
broad U.S. equities.
the right. We stay positive on Japan as laid out on U.S.
But our AI theme has
page 11. And we keep favoringthe AI theme in DM equities
Broad U.S. taken us closer to
stocks.
Other equities neutral.
Strategically, it is more of an income story. Our assets
inflation view keeps us maximum overweight U.S. equity
inflation-linked bonds. We still like income within benchmark
private markets. And within DM government bonds,
we still prefer short-and medium-term maturities.
Note: Views are from a U.S. dollar perspective, December 2023. This material represents an assessment of the market environment at a specific time and is not intended
to be a forecast of future events or a guarantee of future results. This information should not be relied upon by the reader as research or investment advice regarding any
particular funds, strategy or security.
FOR PUBLIC DISTRIBUTION IN THE U.S., CANADA, LATIN AMERICA, HONGKONG, SINGAPORE AND AUSTRALIA. FOR INSTITUTIONAL, PROFESSIONAL, QUALIFIED INVESTORS AND QUALIFIED CLIENTS IN OTHER PERMITTED COUNTRIES. 14
BIIM1223U/M-3266814-14/16

--- PAGE 15 ---
Tactical granular views
Six-to 12-month tactical views on selected assets vs. broad global asset classes by level of conviction, December 2023
Our approach is to first determine asset allocations based on our macro outlook –and Fixed
View Commentary
what’s in the price. The table below reflects this. It leaves aside the opportunity for alpha, or income
the potential to generate above-benchmark returns. The new regime is not conducive to
static exposures to broad asset classes, in our view, but it is creating more space for alpha. Short U.S. We are overweight. We prefer short-term government
For example, the alpha opportunity in highly efficient DM equities markets historically has Treasuries bonds for income as interest rates stay higher for longer.
been low. That’s no longer the case, we think, thanks to greater volatility, macro uncertainty
and dispersion of returns. The new regime puts a premium on insights and skill, in our view. We are neutral. The yield surge driven by expected policy
Long U.S.
rates has likely peaked. We now see about equal odds that
Treasuries
long-term yields swing in either direction.
Equities View Commentary
U.S. inflation- We are neutral. We see higher medium-term inflation, but
linked bonds cooling inflation and growth may matter more near term.
We are underweight the broad market –still our
U.S. largest portfolio allocation. Hopes for rate cuts and Euro area We are underweight. We prefer the U.S. over the euro area.
a soft landing have driven a rally. We see the risk of inflation- We see markets overestimating how persistent inflation in
these hopes being disappointed. linked bonds the euro area will be relative to the U.S.
We are underweight. The ECB is holding policy tight We are neutral. Market pricing reflects policy rates in line
Euro area
Europe in a slowdown. Valuations are attractive, but we with our expectations and 10-year yields are off their highs.
govt bonds
don’t see a catalyst for improving sentiment. Widening peripheral bond spreads remain a risk.
We are neutral. We find attractive valuations better We are neutral. Gilt yields have compressed relative to U.S.
UK reflect the weak growth outlook and the Bank of UK gilts Treasuries. Markets are pricing in Bank of England policy
England’s sharp rate hikes to fight sticky inflation. rates closer to our expectations.
Japanese We are underweight. We see upside risks to yields from the
We are overweight. We see stronger growth helping
govt bonds Bank of Japan winding down its ultra-loose policy.
earnings top expectations. Stock buybacks and
Japan
other shareholder-friendly actions are positives.
China govt We are neutral. Bonds are supported by looser policy. Yet
Potential policy tightening is a near-term risk.
bonds we find yields more attractive in short-term DM paper.
We are overweight. We see a multi-country, multi-
DM AI sector AI-centered investment cycle unfolding, Global IG We are underweight. Tight spreads don’t compensate for
mega force the expected hit to corporate balance sheets from rate
likely supporting revenues and margins. credit
hikes, in our view. We prefer Europe over the U.S.
We are neutral. We see growth on a weaker
Emerging U.S. agency We are overweight. We see agency MBS as a high-quality
trajectory and see only limited policy stimulus from
markets MBS exposure in a diversified bond allocation and prefer it to IG.
China. We prefer EM debt over equity.
Global high We are neutral. Spreads are tight, but we like its high total
We are neutral.Modest policy stimulus may help
yield yield and potential near-term rallies. We prefer Europe.
stabilize activity, and valuations have come down.
China
Structural challenges such as an aging population We are neutral. We don’t find valuations compelling
Asia credit
and geopolitical risks persist. enough to turn more positive.
We are overweight. We prefer EM hard currency debt due to
EM hard
higher yields. It is also cushioned from weakening local
currency
currencies as EM central banks cut policy rates.
Underweight Neutral Overweight nPrevious view We are neutral. Yields have fallen closer to U.S. Treasury
EM
yields. Central bank rate cuts could hurt EM currencies,
local currency
dragging on potential returns.
Past performance is not a reliable indicator of current or future results. It is not possible to invest directly in an index.The statements on alpha do not consider fees. Note: Views are from a U.S. dollar perspective. This material represents an
assessment of the market environment at a specific time and is not intended to be a forecast or guarantee of future results. This information should not be relied upon as investment advice regarding any particular fund, strategy or security.
15
FOR PUBLIC DISTRIBUTION IN THE U.S., CANADA, LATIN AMERICA, HONGKONG, SINGAPORE AND AUSTRALIA.
FOR INSTITUTIONAL, PROFESSIONAL, QUALIFIED INVESTORS AND QUALIFIED CLIENTS IN OTHER PERMITTED COUNTRIES.
BIIM1223U/M-3266814-15/16

--- PAGE 16 ---
BlackRock Investment Institute
The BlackRock Investment Institute(BII) leverages the firm’s expertise and generates proprietary research to provide insights on macroeconomics, sustainable
investing, geopolitics and portfolio construction to help Blackrock’s portfolio managers and clients navigate financial markets.BII offers strategic and tactical market
views, publications and digital tools that are underpinned by proprietary research.
General disclosure: This material is intended for information purposes only, and does not constitute investment advice, a recommendation or an offer or solicitation to purchase or sell any securities to any person in any jurisdiction in which an offer,
solicitation, purchase or sale would be unlawful under the securities laws of such jurisdiction. This material may contain estimates and forward-looking statements, which may include forecasts and do not represent a guaranteeof future performance. This
information is not intended to be complete or exhaustive and no representations or warranties, either express or implied, aremade regarding the accuracy or completeness of the information contained herein. The opinions expressed are as of December
2023 and are subject to change without notice. Reliance upon information in this material is at the sole discretion of the reader. Investing involves risks.
In the U.S. and Canada, this material is intended for public distribution. In EMEA, in the UK and Non-European Economic Area (EEA) countries: this is Issued by BlackRock Investment Management (UK) Limited, authorisedand regulated by the Financial
Conduct Authority. Registered office: 12 Throgmorton Avenue, London, EC2N 2DL. Tel: + 44 (0)20 7743 3000. Registered in England and Wales No. 02020394. For your protection telephone calls are usually recorded. Please refer to the Financial
Conduct Authority website for a list of authorisedactivities conducted by BlackRock. In the European Economic Area (EEA): this is Issued by BlackRock (Netherlands) B.V. is authorisedand regulated by the Netherlands Authority for the Financial Markets.
Registered office Amstelplein1, 1096 HA, Amsterdam, Tel: 020 –549 5200, Tel: 31-20-549-5200. Trade Register No. 17068311 For your protection telephone calls are usually recorded. In Italy, for information on investor rights and how to raise
complaints please go tohttps://www.blackrock.com/corporate/compliance/investor-rightavailable in Italian.In Switzerland, for qualified investors in Switzerland: This document is marketing material. Until 31 December 2021, this document shall be
exclusively made available to, and directed at, qualified investors as defined in the Swiss Collective Investment Schemes Actof23 June 2006 (“CISA”), as amended. From 1 January 2022, this document shall be exclusively made available to, and directed
at, qualified investors as defined in Article 10 (3) of the CISA of 23 June 2006, as amended, at the exclusion of qualified investors with an opting-out pursuant to Art. 5 (1) of the Swiss Federal Act on Financial Services ("FinSA"). For information on art. 8 /
9 Financial Services Act (FinSA) and on your client segmentation under art. 4 FinSA, please see the following website: www.blackrock.com/finsa For investors in Israel: BlackRock Investment Management (UK) Limited is not licensed under Israel’s
Regulation of Investment Advice, Investment Marketing and Portfolio Management Law, 5755-1995 (the “Advice Law”), nor does it carry insurance thereunder. In South Africa, please be advised that BlackRock Investment Management (UK) Limited is an
authorized financial services provider with the South African Financial Services Board, FSP No. 43288. In the DIFCthis material can be distributed in and from the Dubai International Financial Centre (DIFC) by BlackRock Advisors (UK) Limited —Dubai
Branch which is regulated by the Dubai Financial Services Authority (DFSA). This material is only directed at 'Professional Clients’ and no other person should rely upon the information contained within it. Blackrock Advisors (UK) Limited -Dubai Branch is
a DIFC Foreign RecognisedCompany registered with the DIFC Registrar of Companies (DIFC Registered Number 546), with its office at Unit 06/07, Level 1,Al FattanCurrency House, DIFC, PO Box 506661, Dubai, UAE, and is regulated by the DFSA to
engage in the regulated activities of ‘Advising on Financial Products’ and ‘Arranging Deals in Investments’ in or from the DIFC,both of which are limited to units in a collective investment fund (DFSA Reference Number F000738). In the Kingdom of
Saudi Arabia, issued in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia (KSA) by BlackRock Saudi Arabia (BSA), authorisedand regulated by the Capital Market Authority (CMA), License No. 18-192-30. Registered under the laws of KSA. Registered office: 29th floor, Olaya
Towers –Tower B, 3074 Prince Mohammed bin Abdulaziz St., OlayaDistrict, Riyadh 12213 –8022, KSA, Tel: +966 11 838 3600. The information contained within is intended strictly for Sophisticated Investors as defined in the CMA Implementing
Regulations. Neither the CMA or any other authority or regulator located in KSA has approved this information. In the United Arab Emiratesthis material is only intended for -natural Qualified Investor as defined by the Securities and Commodities Authority
(SCA) Chairman Decision No. 3/R.M. of 2017 concerning Promoting and Introducing Regulations. Neither the DFSA or any other authority or regulator located in the GCC or MENA region has approved this information.In the State of Kuwait, those who
meet the description of a Professional Client as defined under the Kuwait Capital Markets Law and its Executive Bylaws. In the Sultanate of Oman, to sophisticated institutions who have experience in investing in local and international securities, are
financially solvent and have knowledge of the risks associated with investing in securities. In Qatar, for distribution with pre-selected institutional investors or high net worth investors. In the Kingdom of Bahrain, to Central Bank of Bahrain (CBB) Category
1 or Category 2 licensed investment firms, CBB licensed banks or those who would meet the description of an Expert Investor or Accredited Investors as defined in the CBB Rulebook. The information contained in this document, does not constitute and
should not be construed as an offer of, invitation, inducement or proposal to make an offer for, recommendation to apply for or an opinion or guidance on a financial product, service and/or strategy.In Singapore, this is issued by BlackRock (Singapore)
Limited (Co. registration no. 200010143N). This advertisement or publication has not been reviewed by the Monetary Authority of Singapore. In Hong Kong, this material is issued by BlackRock Asset Management North Asia Limited and has not been
reviewed by the Securities and Futures Commission of Hong Kong. In South Korea, this material is for distribution to the Qualified Professional Investors (as defined in the Financial Investment Services andCapital Market Act and its sub-regulations). In
Taiwan, independently operated by BlackRock Investment Management (Taiwan) Limited. Address: 28F., No. 100, SongrenRd., Xinyi Dist., Taipei City 110, Taiwan. Tel: (02)23261600. In Japan, this is issued by BlackRock Japan. Co., Ltd. (Financial
Instruments Business Operator: The Kanto Regional Financial Bureau. License No375, Association Memberships: Japan Investment Advisers Association, the Investment Trusts Association, Japan, Japan Securities Dealers Association, Type II Financial
Instruments Firms Association.) For Professional Investors only (Professional Investor is defined in Financial Instruments and Exchange Act). In Australia, issued by BlackRock Investment Management (Australia) Limited ABN 13 006 165 975 AFSL 230
523 (BIMAL). The material provides general information only and does not take into account your individual objectives, financialsituation, needs or circumstances.In New Zealand,issued by BlackRock Investment Management (Australia) Limited ABN13
006 165 975, AFSL 230 523 (BIMAL) for the exclusive use of the recipient, who warrants by receipt of this material that they are a wholesale client as defined under the New Zealand Financial Advisers Act 2008. In China, this material may not be
distributed to individuals resident in the People’s Republic of China (“PRC”, for such purposes, excluding Hong Kong, Macau and Taiwan) or entities registered in the PRC unless such parties have received all the required PRC government approvals to
participate in any investment or receive any investment advisory or investment management services. For Other APAC Countries, this material is issued for Institutional Investors only (or professional/sophisticated /qualified investors, as such term may
apply in local jurisdictions). In Latin America, no securities regulator within Latin America has confirmed the accuracy of any information contained herein. The provision of investment management and investment advisory services is a regulated activity in
Mexico thus is subject to strict rules. For more information on the Investment Advisory Services offered by BlackRock Mexico please refer to the Investment Services Guide available at www.blackrock.com/mx
©2023 BlackRock, Inc. All Rights Reserved. BLACKROCK is a trademark of BlackRock, Inc., or its subsidiaries in the United States and elsewhere. All other trademarks are those of their respective owners.
BIIM1223U/M-3266814-16/16