SOURCE: blackrock/blackrock_2023.pdf
PAGES: 16

--- PAGE 1 ---
FOR PUBLIC DISTRIBUTION IN THE U.S., CANADA, LATIN AMERICA, HONGKONG, SINGAPORE AND AUSTRALIA.
FOR INSTITUTIONAL, PROFESSIONAL, QUALIFIED INVESTORS AND QUALIFIED CLIENTS IN OTHER PERMITTED COUNTRIES.
2023 Global
outlook
BlackRock
Investment
Institute
A new investment playbook
BBIIIIMM11122222UU//MM--22661127194375--11//1166

--- PAGE 2 ---
FOR PUBLIC DISTRIBUTION IN THE U.S., CANADA, LATIN AMERICA, HONGKONG, SINGAPORE AND AUSTRALIA.
FOR INSTITUTIONAL, PROFESSIONAL, QUALIFIED INVESTORS AND QUALIFIED CLIENTS IN OTHER PERMITTED COUNTRIES.
The Great Moderation, the four-decade period of largely stable activity
and inflation, is behind us. The new regime of greater macro and market
volatility is playing out. A recession is foretold; central banks are on
Philipp Hildebrand Jean Boivin
course to overtighten policy as they seek to tame inflation. This keeps us
Vice Chairman — Head —BlackRock
tactically underweight developed market (DM) equities. We expect to
BlackRock Investment Institute
turn more positive on risk assets at some point in 2023 –but we are not
there yet. And when we get there, we don’t see the sustained bull markets
Wei Li
of the past. That’s why a new investment playbook is needed.
Global Chief Investment Strategist —
BlackRock Investment Institute
We laid out in our 2022 midyear outlook This new regime calls for rethinking bonds,
Alex Brazier
why we had entered a new regime –and are our second theme. Higher yields are a gift to
Deputy Head —BlackRock Investment
seeing it play out in persistent inflation and investors who have long been starved for
Institute
output volatility, central banks pushing income. And investors don’t have to go far up
policy rates up to levels that damage the risk spectrum to receive it. We like short-
Vivek Paul economic activity, rising bond yields and term government bonds and mortgage
Head of Portfolio Research — ongoing pressure on risk assets. securities for that reason. We favor high-
BlackRock Investment Institute grade credit as we see it compensating for
Central bankers won’t ride to the rescue
recession risks. On the other hand, we think
when growth slows in this new regime,
long-term government bonds won’t play their
contrary to what investors have come to
Scott Thiel traditional role as portfolio diversifiers due to
expect. They are deliberately causing
Chief Fixed Income Strategist — persistent inflation. And we see investors
recessions by overtightening policy to try to
BlackRock Investment Institute demanding higher compensation for holding
rein in inflation. That makes recession
them as central banks tighten monetary
foretold. We see central banks eventually
policy at a time of record debt levels.
backing off from rate hikes as the economic
damage becomes reality. We expect Our third theme is living with inflation. We
inflation to cool but stay persistently higher see long-term drivers of the new regime such
than central bank targets of 2%. as aging workforces keeping inflation above
Contents
pre-pandemic levels. We stay overweight
What matters most, we think, is how much
inflation-linked bonds on both a tactical and
First words 2-3 Investment views 8-9 of the economic damage is already reflected
Summary 2 T actical 8 in market pricing. This is why pricing the strategic horizon as a result.
New regime plays 3 Strategic 9
damageis our first 2023 investment theme. Our bottom line: The new regime requires a
out
Case in point:Equity valuations don’t yet new investment playbook. It involves more
New playbook 4 Regime drivers 10-12
reflect the damage ahead, in our view. We frequent portfolio changes by balancing
Aging workforces 10
Themes 5-7 A new world order 11 will turn positive on equities when we think views on risk appetite with estimates of how
Pricing the damage 5 F a s t e r t r a n s i t ion 12 the damage is priced or our view of market markets are pricing in economic damage. It
Rethinking bonds 6 risk sentiment changes. Yet we won’t see also calls for taking more granular views by
Living with inflation 7 Private markets 13 this as a prelude to another decade-long focusing on sectors, regions and sub-asset
View summary 14-15
bull market in stocks and bonds. classes, rather than on broad exposures.
222 22002223 mouitdlyoeoakr outlook
BBIIIIMM11122222UU//MM--22661127194375--22//1166

--- PAGE 3 ---
FOR PUBLIC DISTRIBUTION IN THE U.S., CANADA, LATIN AMERICA, HONGKONG, SINGAPORE AND AUSTRALIA.
FOR INSTITUTIONAL, PROFESSIONAL, QUALIFIED INVESTORS AND QUALIFIED CLIENTS IN OTHER PERMITTED COUNTRIES.
Taming inflation would take deep recession
Intro U.S. GDP and potential supply, 2017-2025
110
New regime
2% fall
105
playing out
x
e
d100
n
I
Large drop in GDP
A key feature of the new regime, we Either get inflation back to 2%
needed to close gap
believe, is that we are in a world targets by crushing demand down to between demand and
shaped by supplythat involves what the economy can comfortably 95 supply in 2023
brutal trade-offs. This regime is produce now (dotted green line in
playing out and not going away, in the chart), or live with more inflation.
our view. For now, they’re all in on the first 90
option. So recession is foretold. 2017 2019 2021 2023 2025
Repeated inflation surprises have
Signs of a slowdown are emerging. Trend GDP Estimate of non-inflationary GDP level
sent bond yields soaring, crushing
But as the damage becomes real, we
equities and fixed income. Such Chart takeaway:Getting inflation all the way back down to target –
believe they’ll stop their hikes even
volatility stands in sharp contrast the dotted green line –would require the Fed to deal a significant
though inflation won’t be on track to
to the Great Moderation, 40 years blow to the economy.
get all the way down to 2%.
of steady growth and inflation.
Production constraintsare driving Some production constraints could Sources: BlackRock Investment Institute and U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis, with data from Haver
Analytics, November 2022. Notes: The chart shows demand in the economy, measured by real GDP (in
this new regime: The pandemic ease as spending normalizes. But we
orange) and our estimate of pre-Covid trend growth (in yellow). The green dotted line shows our estimate of
shift in consumer spending from see three long-term trends keeping
current production capacity, derived by how much core PCE inflation has exceeded the Federal Reserve’s 2%
services to goods caused shortages production capacity constrained and inflation target. When then gauge how far activity (orange line) would have to fall to close the gap with where
and bottlenecks. Aging populations cementing the new regime. First, production capacity (green dotted line), will be by the end of 2023 assuming some recovery in production
capacity. We estimate a 2% drop in GDP between Q3 2022 and Q3 2023 (orange dotted line). Forward-
led to worker shortages. This aging populations mean continued
looking estimates may not come to pass.
means DMs can’t produce as much worker shortages in many major
as before without creating inflation economies. Second, persistent
pressure. That’s why inflation is so geopolitical tensions are rewiring
Production constraints are fueling
high now, even though activity is globalization and supply chains.
below its pre-Covid trend. Third, the transition to net-zero inflation and macro volatility. Central
carbon emissions is causing energy
Central bank policy rates are not banks cannot solve these constraints.
supply and demand mismatches.
the tool to resolve production
See pages 11-13. That leaves them raising rates and
constraints; they can only influence
demand in their economies. That Our bottom line: What worked in the engineering recessions to fight inflation.
leaves them with a brutal trade-off. past won’t work now.
333 22002223 mouitdlyoeoakr outlook
BBIIIIMM11122222UU//MM--22661127194375--33//1166

--- PAGE 4 ---
FOR PUBLIC DISTRIBUTION IN THE U.S., CANADA, LATIN AMERICA, HONGKONG, SINGAPORE AND AUSTRALIA.
FOR INSTITUTIONAL, PROFESSIONAL, QUALIFIED INVESTORS AND QUALIFIED CLIENTS IN OTHER PERMITTED COUNTRIES.
Our new playbook
Tactical views
Enough damage in the price?
No Yes
Risk off, damage not priced Risk off, damage priced
Navigating markets in 2023 will
require more frequent portfolio
changes. We see two assessments Equities Equities
that determine tactical portfolio
outcomes: 1) our assessment of
market risk sentiment, and 2) our Credit Credit
Off
view of the economic damage
reflected in market pricing. t
n
The matrix shows how we plan to e Short term Short term
m
change our views and turn more Govt. Govt.
positive as markets play out in the i t bonds bonds
n
new regime. A few key conclusions: e Long term Long term
s
• We are already at our most k
defensive stance. Other options s Risk on, damage not priced Risk on, damage priced
i
are about turning more positive, r
t
especially on equities. e
k Equities Equities
• We are underweight nominal r
a
long-term government bonds in M
each scenario in this new regime.
Credit Credit
This is our strongest conviction in On
any scenario.
• We can turn positive in different Short term Short term
ways: either via our assessment of Govt. Govt.
market risk sentiment or our view bonds bonds
on how much damage is in the Long term Long term
price.
Past performance is not a reliable indicator of current or future results. It is not possible to invest directly in an index.Sources: Blackrock Investment Institute, November 2022. Notes: The boxes in this
stylized matrix show how our tactical views on broad asset classes would switch if we were to change our assessment of market risk sentiment or assessment of how much economic damage is priced in.
The potential view changes are from a U.S. dollar perspective. This material represents an assessment of the market environment at a specific time and is not intended to be a forecast or guarantee of
future results. This information should not be relied upon as investment advice regarding any particular fund, strategy or security.
444 2022 midyear outlook
We are here
Tactical view
Underweight Overweight
2023 outlook
BBIIIIMM11122222UU//MM--22661127194375--44//1166

--- PAGE 5 ---
FOR PUBLIC DISTRIBUTION IN THE U.S., CANADA, LATIN AMERICA, HONGKONG, SINGAPORE AND AUSTRALIA.
FOR INSTITUTIONAL, PROFESSIONAL, QUALIFIED INVESTORS AND QUALIFIED CLIENTS IN OTHER PERMITTED COUNTRIES.
Damage already clear
U.S. new home sales during policy rate tightening cycles, 1972-2022
Theme 1
25%
Pricing the
s
damage e la 0%
s
e
m
o
h
w-25%
e
Recession is foretold as central Our approach to tactical investment n
n 2022
1972
banks race to try to tame inflation. views is driven by our view of market i
e 1980
1977
It’s the opposite of past recessions: participants’ risk appetite –which is g n
Loose policy is not on the way to based on the uncertainty of the a h -50%
C
help support risk assets, in our macro environment and other inputs
2004
view. That’s why the old playbook of –and by our assessment of what
simply “buying the dip” doesn’t damage is in the price, especially
-75%
apply in this regime of sharper equity earningsexpectations and
0 12 24 36 48
trade-offs and greater macro valuations.
Months
volatility. The new playbook calls
We expect them to stop hiking and
for a continuous reassessment of
activity to stabilize in 2023. We find Chart takeaway: The slide in housing sales this year is already
how much of the economic
that earnings expectations don’t yet steeper than past mega Fed hiking cycles, such as in the 1970s and
damage being generated by central
price in even a mild recession. For early 1980s –as well as the unwind of the mid-2000s U.S. housing
banks is in the price.
that reason, we stay underweight boom.
That damage is building. In the DM equities on a tactical horizon for
U.S., it’s most evident in rate- now. Source: BlackRock Investment Institute and U.S. Census Bureau, with data from Refinitiv Datastream,
sensitive sectors. Surging November 2022. Notes: The chart shows how quickly in months sales of new family houses changed during
Yet we stand ready to turn more policy rate tightening cycles between 1972 and 2022. The colored, labeledlines highlight 2022 and the
mortgage rates have cratered sales
positive as valuations get closer to years when housing sales fell most quickly.
of new homes. See the chart. We
reflecting the economic damage –as
also see other warning signs, such
opposed to risk assets just
as deteriorating CEO confidence,
responding to hopes of a soft We don’t think equities are fully priced
delayed capital spending plans and
landing. It’s not just about pricing
consumers depleting savings. In for recession. But we stand ready to turn
the damage: We could see markets
Europe, the hit to incomes from the
look through the damage and positive via our assessment of the
energy shock is amplified by
market risk sentiment improve in a
tightening financial conditions. market’s risk sentiment or how much
way that would prod us to dial up our
The ultimate economic damage risk appetite. But we are not there economic damage is in the price.
depends on how far central banks yet.
go to get inflation down.
555 22002223 mouitdlyoeoakr outlook
BBIIIIMM11122222UU//MM--22661127194375--55//1166

--- PAGE 6 ---
FOR PUBLIC DISTRIBUTION IN THE U.S., CANADA, LATIN AMERICA, HONGKONG, SINGAPORE AND AUSTRALIA.
FOR INSTITUTIONAL, PROFESSIONAL, QUALIFIED INVESTORS AND QUALIFIED CLIENTS IN OTHER PERMITTED COUNTRIES.
Bonds and stocks can go down at same time
Correlation of U.S. equity and government bond returns
Theme 2
75%
Rethinking
50%
25%
bonds
n
o
it
a
le 0%
r
r
o
C
Fixed income finally offers The negative correlation between -25%
“income” after yields surged stock and bond returns has already
globally. This has boosted the flipped, as the chart shows, meaning -50%
allure of bonds after investors were they can both go down at the same
starved for yield for years. We take time. Why? Central banks are
-75%
a granular investment approach to unlikely to come to the rescue with
1960 1970 1980 1990 2000 2010 2020
capitalize on this, rather than rapid rate cuts in recessions they
taking broad, aggregate exposures. engineered to bring down inflation
Chart takeaway: A cornerstone of portfolio construction in recent
to policy targets. If anything, policy
The case for investment-grade decades was that bond prices would go up when stocks sold off. We
rates may stay higher for longer than
credit has brightened, in our view, think this correlation has broken down in the new regime.
the market is expecting.
and we raise our overweight
tactically and strategically. We Investors also will increasingly ask
think it can hold up in a recession, for more compensation to hold long-
with companies having fortified term government bonds –or term
their balance sheets by refinancing premium –amid high debt levels,
debt at lower yields. Agency rising supply and higher inflation.
mortgage-backed securities –a Central banks are shrinking their
Sources: BlackRock Investment Institute, with data from Refinitiv Datastream, November 2022. Notes: The chart
new tactical overweight –can also bond holdings and Japan may stop
shows the correlation of daily U.S. 10-year Treasury and S&P 500 returns over a rolling one-year period.
play a diversified income role. purchases, while governments are
Short-term government debt also still running deficits. That means the
looks attractive at current yields, private sector needs to absorb more
The lure of fixed income is strong as
and we now break out this category bonds. And so-called bond vigilantes
into a separate tactical view. are back, as seen when market surging yields mean bonds finally offer
forces sparked a yield surge to
In the old playbook, long-term income. Yet long-dated bonds face
punish profligate UK policies.
government bonds would be part of
challenges, we believe, making us prefer
the package as they historically As a result, we remain underweight
have shielded portfolios from long-term government bonds in short-term bonds and high-grade credit.
recession. Not this time, we think. tactical and strategic portfolios.
666 22002223 mouidtlyoeoakr outlook
BBIIIIMM11122222UU//MM--22661127194375--66//1166

--- PAGE 7 ---
Persistent inflation
FOR PUBLIC DISTRIBUTION IN THE U.S., CANADA, LATIN AMERICA, HONGKONG, SINGAPORE AND AUSTRALIA.
FOR INSTITUTIONAL, PROFESSIONAL, QUALIFIED INVESTORS AND QUALIFIED CLIENTS IN OTHER PERMITTED COUNTRIES.
Wishful thinking on inflation
Theme 3 U.S. core CPI inflation, forecasts and breakeven rates, 2020-2025
Living with 6
inflation )
%
4
(
IP
C
e
r
o
C
High inflation has sparked cost-of- We stay overweight inflation-linked
2
living crises, putting pressure on bonds and like real assets. The old
central banks to tame inflation – playbook principle that recession
whatever it takes. Yet there has drives below-target inflation and
been little debateabout the looser monetary policy is gone. 0
damage to growth and jobs. 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025
Beyond Covid-related supply
We think the “politics of inflation” disruptions, we see three long-term
Reported U.S. core CPI Economist median forecasts
narrative is on the cusp of constraints keeping the new regime
Current 5-year breakeven
changing. The cycle of outsized in place and inflation above pre-
rate hikes will stop without inflation pandemic levels: aging populations,
Chart takeaway: Consensus forecasts have kept underestimating
being back on track to return fully geopolitical fragmentation and the
how high inflation would go –and at first overestimated how quickly
to 2% targets, in our view. As the transition to a lower-carbon world.
it would return closer to pre-pandemic levels. We think inflation will
damage becomes clear, the
Our strategic views have reflected the be persistently higher, unlike market pricing.
“politics of recession” will take over.
new regime, with an overweight to
Plus, central banks may be forced
inflation-protected bonds for a few
to stop tightening to prevent Sources: BlackRock Investment Institute, with data from Refinitiv Datastream, November 2022. Note: The
years now. Market expectations and
financial cracks from becoming graylines show consensus economist projections of CPI inflation polled by Reuters. The yellow dot shows
economist forecasts have only current market implied five-year-ahead inflation expectations. Forward looking estimates may not come to
floodgates, as seen in the UK when
recently started to appreciate that pass.
investors took fright of fiscal
inflation will be more persistent. See
stimulus plans. Result? Even with a
the graylines in the chart. We think
recession coming, we think we are
the old playbook means markets We see central banks pausing rate hike
going to be living with inflation.
underappreciate inflation. See the
campaigns once the damage becomes
We do see inflation cooling as yellow dot. The market’s wishful
spending patterns normalize and thinking on inflation is why we have a clearer. Long-term drivers of the new
energy prices relent –but we see it high conviction, maximum
regime will keep inflation persistently
persisting above policy targets in overweight to inflation-linked bonds
coming years. More volatile and in strategic portfolios and maintain a higher, in our view.
persistent inflation is not yet priced tactical overweight no matter how the
in by markets, we think. new regime plays out.
777 22002223 mouitdlyoeoakr outlook
BBIIIIMM11122222UU//MM--22661127194375--77//1166

--- PAGE 8 ---
FOR PUBLIC DISTRIBUTION IN THE U.S., CANADA, LATIN AMERICA, HONGKONG, SINGAPORE AND AUSTRALIA.
FOR INSTITUTIONAL, PROFESSIONAL, QUALIFIED INVESTORS AND QUALIFIED CLIENTS IN OTHER PERMITTED COUNTRIES.
Short over long
U.S. Treasury yields, 2000-2022
Tactical views
7%
A new playbook 6%
5%
Our 2023 playbook is ready to In equities, we believe recession isn’t 4%
d
quickly adjust depending on how fully reflected in corporate earnings le
markets price economic damage expectations or valuations –and we
iY
3%
and our risk stance evolves. disagree with market assumptions
that central banks will eventually 2%
We prefer short-term government
turn supportive with rate cuts. We
bonds for income: The jump in
look to lean into sectoral
yields reduces the need to take risk 1%
opportunities from structural
by seeking yield further out the
transitions –such as healthcare
curve. U.S. two-year Treasury yields 0%
amid aging populations –as a way
have soared above 10-year yields. 2000 2005 2010 2015 2020
to add granularity even as we stay
See the chart. We break out short- 10-year Two-year
overall underweight.Among
term Treasuries as a neutral.
cyclicals, we prefer energy and
Chart takeaway: We see long-term yields rising further as term
We add to our overweight to financials. We see energy sector
premium returns. Yet we expect less room for short-term yields to
investment grade credit. Higher earnings easing from historically
climb given the limited scope we see for a further jump in expected
yields and strong balance sheets elevated levels yet holding up amid
policy rates.
suggest to us investment grade tight energy supply. Higher interest
credit may be better placed than rates bode well for bank profitability.
equities to weather recessions. We like healthcare given appealing Past performance is not a reliable indicator of current or future results. Source: BlackRock
Investment Institute, with data from Refinitiv Datastream, November 2022. Notes: The chart
valuations and likely cashflow
We like U.S. agency mortgage- shows U.S. 10-year and two-year Treasury yields.
resilience during downturns.
backed securities (MBS) for their
higher income and because they
offer some credit protection via the
government ownership of their
A bottom-up look at what our We expect views to change more
issuers. And our expectation for
companies are telling us is
persistent inflation relative to frequently than in the past. Our stance
probably the best lens we have
market pricing keeps us overweight
into the future.” heading into 2023 is broadly risk-off,
inflation-linked bonds.
Carrie King with a preference for income over
Long-term government bonds
Global Deputy Chief
remain challenged as we have equities and long-term bonds.
Investment Officer,
described, so we stay underweight. Blackrock Fundamental
Equities
888 22002223 mouitdlyoeoakr outlook
BBIIIIMM11122222UU//MM--22661127194375--88//1166

--- PAGE 9 ---
FOR PUBLIC DISTRIBUTION IN THE U.S., CANADA, LATIN AMERICA, HONGKONG, SINGAPORE AND AUSTRALIA.
FOR INSTITUTIONAL, PROFESSIONAL, QUALIFIED INVESTORS AND QUALIFIED CLIENTS IN OTHER PERMITTED COUNTRIES.
Asset mix matters more in new regime
Strategic views Estimated returns in new regime vs. Great Moderation
1.0%
A new strategic
n 0.5%
r
u
t
approach e r
d
e 0.0%
t
a
m
it
s
E-0.5%
The Great Moderation allowed for Our strategic views stay modestly
relatively stable strategic overweight DM equities as we
portfolios. That won’t work in the estimate the overall return of stocks -1.0%
new regime: We think they will need will be greater than fixed-income 40/60 equity-bond 80/20 equity-bond
to be more nimble. assets over the coming decade.
Staying invested in stocks is one way New regime Great Moderation
We don’t see a return to conditions
to get more granular with structural
that will sustain a joint bull market Chart takeaway: The cost of getting the asset mix wrong is likely
trends impacting sectors.
in stocks and bonds of the kind we to be much higher in the new regime –as much as four times
experienced in the prior decade. We stay overweight inflation-linked versus the Great Moderation –by our estimates.
The asset mix has always been bonds and underweight nominal DM
For illustrative purposes only. These do not represent actual portfolios and do not constitute investment
important, yet our analysis posits government bonds. Within
advice. Source: BlackRock Investment Institute, with data from Refinitiv Datastream and Morningstar,
that getting the mix wrong could be government bonds, we like short November 2022. Notes: The chart illustrates the contrast between estimated average annual relative
as much as four times as costly as maturities to harvest yield for performance of two hypothetical portfolios against a 60-40 global equity-global bond portfolio over the
coming decade where we see a regime of higher macro and market volatility (orange) and estimated
versus the Great Moderation. See income and avoid interest rate risk.
performance over the Great Moderation era (1990-2019) of stable growth and inflation (yellow bars). We
the difference between the orange Within fixed income, we prefer to show hypothetical performance of portfolios comprising a 40%-global equity-60% global bond split and an
bar and yellow markers on the take risk in credit –and we prefer 80% global equity-20% global bond mix. Index proxies: MSCI AC World for equities and the Bloomberg
Global Aggregate Index for bonds. An inherent limitation of hypothetical results is that allocation decisions
chart. Zero or even positive public credit to private.
reflected in the performance record were not made under actual market conditions. They cannot completely
correlation between the returns of
account for the impact of financial risk in actual portfolio management. Indexes are unmanaged and do not
stocks and bonds means it will take account for fees. It is not possible to invest directly in an index.
higher portfolio volatility to achieve
similar levels of return as before. It’s undeniable the new regime
Our strategic views are positioned for
requires a new approach to
We see private markets as a core
portfolios. The strategic asset the new regime. We think even strategic
holding for institutional investors.
mix will matter more.”
The asset class isn’t immune to portfolios need to be more dynamic –
macro volatility and we are broadly
Simona Paravani- and getting the asset mix wrong can be
underweight as we think valuations
Mellinghoff
could fall, suggesting better even more costly.
Global CIO of Solutions,
opportunities in coming years than BlackRock Multi-Asset
now. See more on page 13. Strategies & Solutions
999 22002223 mouitdlyoeoakr outlook
BBIIIIMM11122222UU//MM--22661127194375--99//1166

--- PAGE 10 ---
FOR PUBLIC DISTRIBUTION IN THE U.S., CANADA, LATIN AMERICA, HONGKONG, SINGAPORE AND AUSTRALIA.
FOR INSTITUTIONAL, PROFESSIONAL, QUALIFIED INVESTORS AND QUALIFIED CLIENTS IN OTHER PERMITTED COUNTRIES.
A workforce not recovered
Contribution of aging to U.S. labor force participation rate drop, 2008-2022
Regime drivers
A workforce not recovered
Aging populations are negative for economic growth. Production C
66 0 o
Aging workforces capacity will grow less quickly in the future as populations age and n
t
r
younger generations fail to replace them. bi
u
-1 t
oi
) n
We have laid out three long-term Some of that drop in the workforce
%
o
drivers of production constraints in has now unwound. But the yellow ( e t 64 -2 g a f
the new regime. The first is aging line shows that the part not made up
a
r n g
ni
populations. The effects are long in is almost entirely down to aging – o it
a
-3
e
p (
the making but are becoming more the increasing share of the p c r
ic e
b W in h d y? in A g g n in o g w p . opulations mean p – o ra p t u h la e t r i t o h n a t n h p at a i n s d o e f m re ic ti - r s e p m ec e i n fi t c a ge it r a P 62 -4 e g a t n
effects. That’s why we don’t expect p
s
in
h
c
r
r
in
ea
k
s
in
in
g
g
w
s
o
h
r
a
k
r
fo
e
r
o
c
f
e
t
s
h
.
e
A n
U .
e
S
v
.
er- an improvement in the participation -5 ni o
rate from here, and so no material s t
population is aged 65 or older )
easing of the worker shortage that is 60 -6
when most leave the workforce.
contributing to inflation. 2008 2010 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020 2022
This is one key reason the supply of
U.S. labor is currently struggling to Aging is bad news for future Participation rate Contribution of aging (right)
keep up with demand for labor. economic growth, too. The available
workforce will expand much more Chart takeaway: The labor force participation rate fell dramatically
Just like students and stay-at-
slowly in coming years than it has in in the pandemic as the economy shut down. Many people who left
home parents, retirees are “outside
the past. Economies won’t be able to the workforce haven’t come back –and won’t.
the labor force.” That’s mainly why
produce as much. And we don’t think
the share of the adult population
aging populations consume Sources: BlackRock Investment Institute, U.S. Bureau of LaborStatistics, October 2022. Notes: The orange line
that’s inside the labor force – shows the U.S. laborforce participation rate, defined as the share of the adult population (aged 16 and over)
substantially less either, particularly
meaning in work or looking for that is in work or actively looking for work. The yellow line shows how much the aging population has
when you factor in healthcare contributed to the decline in the participation rate since 2008. It is calculated by fixing participation rates for
work –is still well below where it
demand. That means continued each age group and changing the weights as observed in the population data over the chart sample period.
was when the pandemic began.
inflation pressure, as reduced
That share is also referred to as the
production capacity struggles to
participation rate. See the orange
keep up with demand. We also see Aging populations are negative for
line on the chart.
rising government spending on care
economic growth. Production capacity
The initial sharp drop was driven by for the elderly adding to debt.
Covid shutdowns: Many who lost will grow less quickly in the future as an
Within equities, we like healthcare as
their job didn’t look for another one
a sector developing medicine and ever-larger share of the population is
right away given healthcare worries
equipment to help meet aging
or care-giving responsibilities. past retirement age and not working.
population needs.
111000 22002223 mOiudtyloeoakr outlook
BBIIIIMM11122222UU//MM--22661127194375--1100//1166

--- PAGE 11 ---
FOR PUBLIC DISTRIBUTION IN THE U.S., CANADA, LATIN AMERICA, HONGKONG, SINGAPORE AND AUSTRALIA.
FOR INSTITUTIONAL, PROFESSIONAL, QUALIFIED INVESTORS AND QUALIFIED CLIENTS IN OTHER PERMITTED COUNTRIES.
Geopolitical risk grabs market attention
BlackRock Geopolitical Risk Indicator (BGRI), 2018-2022
Regime drivers
2.5
A new world order
2
Russia
invasionof
1.5 WHO declares
We’ve entered into a new world China’s recent party congress was a Ukraine
COVID-19 a global
order. This is, in our view, the most pivotal event, both politically and
e pandemic
fraught global environment since economically, in our view. China r o 1
c
World War Two –a full break from looks set to de-emphasize economic S
IR
the post-Cold War era. We see growth as it pursues self-sufficiency G 0.5
geopolitical cooperation and in energy, food and technology. We B
globalization evolving into a see slower growth compounded by U.S.
0
fragmented world with competing the effects of an aging population presidential
election
blocs. That comes at the cost of over time.
economic efficiency. Sourcing -0.5
Geopolitical fragmentation is likely
more locally may be costlier for
to foster a permanent risk premium
firms, and we could also see fresh -1
across asset classes, rather than
mismatches in supply and demand 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022
have only a fleeting effect on
as resources are reallocated.
markets as in the past. Market Chart takeaway: We have seen a surge in market interest in
A prime example is the response to attention is likely to stay fixated on
geopolitical risk in recent months, highlighting how fraught the
Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. geopolitical risks. See the chart. current environment is.
Western sanctions have triggered a
All this will likely contribute to the
pursuit of economic self- Forward-looking estimates may not come to pass. Source: BlackRock Investment Institute. October 2022. The
new regime of greater macro and BlackRock Geopolitical Risk Indicator (BGRI) tracks the relative frequency of brokerage reports (via Refinitiv) and
sufficiency. Energy security is now
market volatility –and persistently financial news stories (Dow Jones News) associated with specific geopolitical risks. We adjust for whether the
a priority: As Europe weans itself sentiment in the text of articles is positive or negative, and then assign a score. This score reflects the level of market
higher inflation.
off Russian oil and gas, we’ve seen attention to each risk versus a five-year history. We use a shorter historical window for our COVID risk due to its
limited age. We assign a heavier weight to brokerage reports than other media sources since we want to measure the
energy shortages and higher
market's attention to any particular risk, not the public’s.
prices. In the U.S., we see a push to
favor trading partners when
We’re in a new world order of
sourcing the metals and materials This is the most fraught geopolitical
geopolitical fragmentation, a
needed in the net-zero transition.
full break with the post-Cold environment since WW II, in our view.
Strategic competition between the War era.”
The world is splitting up into competing
U.S. and China has intensified. A
tough stance toward China has Tom Donilon blocs that pursue self-reliance.
bipartisan support in Washington. Chairman, BlackRock
Investment Institute
The U.S is trying to restrict China’s
access to high-end technology.
111111 22002223 mouitdlyoeoakr outlook
BBIIIIMM11122222UU//MM--22661127194375--1111//1166

--- PAGE 12 ---
FOR PUBLIC DISTRIBUTION IN THE U.S., CANADA, LATIN AMERICA, HONGKONG, SINGAPORE AND AUSTRALIA.
FOR INSTITUTIONAL, PROFESSIONAL, QUALIFIED INVESTORS AND QUALIFIED CLIENTS IN OTHER PERMITTED COUNTRIES.
Policy helping accelerate the transition
Total annual green investment, past and planned, 2015-2030
Regime drivers
2.5
Faster transition
2
n
We track the transition to net-zero We see it cutting clean technology o
carbon emissions likewe track any costs and spurring domestic
illir
1.5
t
other driver of investment risks and manufacturing. r a
opportunities, such as monetary
llo
We see opportunities in transition- d 1
policy. We take a view on how it is
ready investments. Infrastructure is
.S
likely to play out, not how it should .U
one way to play into that. See page
play out. We assess its implications
13. Yet the transition is set to add to 0.5
for financial risks and returns.
production constraints, in our view.
Our researchsuggests the global It involves a huge reallocation of
transition could accelerate, resources. Oil and gas will still be 0
boosted by significant climate neededto meet future energy 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2030
policy action, by technological demand under any plausible
progress reducing the cost of transition. If high-carbon production Developed economies China Emerging economies
renewable energy and by shifting falls faster than low-carbon
societal preferences as physical alternatives are phased in, shortages Chart takeaway: Global investment in the net-zero transition is
damage from climate change –and could result, driving up prices and set to step up notably in coming years –largely thanks to key
its costs –become more evident. disrupting economic activity. The policy action.
faster the transition, the more out of
Europe has intensified its efforts to
sync the handoff could be –
build clean energy infrastructure as
meaning more volatile inflation and
it seeks to wean itself off Russian Source: BlackRock Investment Institute and International Energy Agency (IEA), November 2022. Notes: The
economic activity. chart shows IEA estimates of past and planned annual green investment, in trillions of U.S. dollars.​ Forward-
energy. The clearest example of
looking estimates may not come to pass.
that is the European Commission’s
RePowerEUPlan. Further impetus
is likely to come from higher We find good opportunities by
We track the transition to net-zero
traditional energy prices, which are getting ahead of where the
exacerbatingthe cost-of-living green investments are going.” carbon emissions as we track any other
crisis and have shifted the
driver of investment risks and
economics decisively in favor of
cleaner energy sources. In the U.S., Hannah Johnson opportunities.
the Inflation Reduction Act is Portfolio Manager, Natural
Resources, BlackRock
poised to unleash enormous
Fundamental Equity
investment.
111222 22002223 mouitdlyoeoakr outlook
BBIIIIMM11122222UU//MM--22661127194375--1122//1166

--- PAGE 13 ---
FOR PUBLIC DISTRIBUTION IN THE U.S., CANADA, LATIN AMERICA, HONGKONG, SINGAPORE AND AUSTRALIA.
FOR INSTITUTIONAL, PROFESSIONAL, QUALIFIED INVESTORS AND QUALIFIED CLIENTS IN OTHER PERMITTED COUNTRIES.
Investment gap
Infrastructure investment, 2007-2040
Private markets
Cumulative
5
The long view on $95t
4
infrastructure n o $80t
illir
t
r a 3
llo
In private markets, valuations have The U.S. Inflation Reduction Act d
.S
not caught up with the public alone earmarks nearly $400 billion .U
market selloff, reducing their of investment and incentives in 2
relative appeal. We are sustainable infrastructure and
underweight private markets in our supply chains.
strategic views, particularly
We believe infrastructure can help 1
segments such as private equity
diversify returns and provide stable 2007 2017 2027 2037
that have seen heavy inflows. But
long-term cashflows –even with
we think private markets –a Current pace Projected need
risks such as governments imposing
complex asset class not suitable
artificial price caps amid political
for all investors – should be a Chart takeaway: Structural trends –the reshaping global energy
pressure. Infrastructure earnings are
larger allocation than what we see supply, digitalization and decarbonization –entail a sizeable step-
often less tied to economic cycles
most qualified investors hold. up in the pace of infrastructure investments.
than corporate assets. Contracts can
We see some opportunities in be long-term and span decades. And
Sources: BlackRock Investment Institute and World Bank, 2017. Notes: The chart shows
infrastructure. From roads to infrastructure assets can help hedge
estimated infrastructure investment for 50 countries through 2040. The yellow line shows
airports and energy infrastructure, against inflation, with fixed costs investment needed annually. The orange line shows investment trends assuming countries invest
these assets are essential to and prices linked to inflation. in line with current trends, according to the World Bank. The cumulative total of $95 trillion is for
industry and households alike. investment needed vs. $80 trillion in current trends. Forward looking estimates may not come to
Infrastructure has the potential to pass.
benefit from increased demand for
capital over the long term, powered Asset selection is vital, in our
by structural trends such as the view, given the high dispersion Private markets are not immune to
energy crunch and digitalization. of performance even within
macro volatility. Yet for strategic
the infrastructure asset class.”
The chart shows World Bank data
investors, asset classes such as
pointing to a gap of about $15
Anne Valentine
trillion between existing infrastructure could provide a way to
Andrews
investments and what’s needed to
Global Head, BlackRock play into structural trends.
meet global infrastructure demand Alternatives, Infrastructure
over coming decades. and Real Estate
111333 22002223 mouitdlyoeoakr outlook
BBIIIIMM11122222UU//MM--22661127194375--1133//1166

--- PAGE 14 ---
FOR PUBLIC DISTRIBUTION IN THE U.S., CANADA, LATIN AMERICA, HONGKONG, SINGAPORE AND AUSTRALIA.
FOR INSTITUTIONAL, PROFESSIONAL, QUALIFIED INVESTORS AND QUALIFIED CLIENTS IN OTHER PERMITTED COUNTRIES.
Directional views
Directional views Strategic (long-term) and tactical (6-12 month) views on broad asset classes, November 2022
Asset Strategic view Tactical view
Getting
We are overweight equities in our strategic views
as we estimate the overall return of stocks will be
greater than fixed-income assets over the
granular coming decade. Valuations on a long-horizon do
Equities not appear stretched to us. Tactically, we’re
underweight DM stocks as central banks look set
to overtighten policy –we see recessions
looming. Corporate earnings expectations have
Our new investment playbook –both strategic and yet to fully reflect even a modest recession.
tactical –calls for greater granularity to capture
Strategically, we add to our overweight to global
opportunities arising from greater dispersion and investment grade credit on attractive valuations
volatility we anticipate in coming years. and income potential given higher yields. We turn
neutral high yield as we see the asset class as
Take equities. We are tactically underweight DM equities. Credit more vulnerable to recession risks. Tactically,
We break this down as an underweight in the U.S., Europe we’re also overweight investment grade and
neutral high yield. We prefer to be up in quality.
and UK and a neutral on Japan. But we take it a step
We cut EM debt to neutral after its strong run. We
further via sectoral preferences that we think will be key see better opportunities for income in DMs.
in the new regime. We like energy, financials and
The underweight in our strategic view on
healthcare over staples, utilities and consumer government bonds reflects a big spread: max
discretionary. On a strategic horizon, we are overweight underweight nominal, max overweight inflation-
equities with a preference for DM. We think DM equities linked and an underweight on Chinese bonds. We
think markets are underappreciating the
are one way to get more granular and benefit from
persistence of high inflation and the implications
Govt
structural trends. We believe DM equity indexes are for investors demanding a higher term premium.
Bonds
better positioned for the net-zero transition, for instance, Tactically, we are underweight long-dated DM
government bonds as we see term premium
with heavier weights in lower carbon-intensive sectors
driving yields higher, yet we are neutral short-
such as tech and healthcare.
dated government bonds as we see a likely peak
in pricing of policy rates. The high yields offer
In fixed income, the return of income and carry has
relatively attractive income opportunities.
boosted the allure of certain bonds, especially short term.
We’re underweight private growth assets and
We don’t think leaning into broad indexes or asset
neutral on private credit, from a starting
allocation blocks is the correct approach. We stay allocation that is much larger than what most
underweight long-term nominal bonds as we see term qualified investors hold. Private assets are not
premium returning due to persistent inflation, high debt Private immune to higher macro and market volatility or
higher rates, and public market selloffs have
loads and thinning market liquidity. For those reasons, Markets
reduced their relative appeal. Private allocations
they won’t play the same safe-haven role as in the old are long-term commitments, however, and we see
playbook. These factors matter less for short-term bonds, opportunities as assets reprice over time. Private
markets are a complex asset class not suitable
in our view. We also have a high conviction overweight to
for all investors.
investment grade credit –relative to a neutral on high
yield –and we still like inflation-linked over nominal Underweight Neutral Overweight nPrevious view
bonds in both tactical and strategic views.
Note: Views are from a U.S. dollar perspective, November 2022. This material represents an assessment of the market environment at a
specific time and is not intended to be a forecast of future events or a guarantee of future results. This information shouldnot be relied
111444 22002223 mouitdlyoeoakr outlook
upon by the reader as research or investment advice regarding any particular funds, strategy or security.
BBIIIIMM11122222UU//MM--22661127194375--1144//1166

--- PAGE 15 ---
FOR PUBLIC DISTRIBUTION IN THE U.S., CANADA, LATIN AMERICA, HONGKONG, SINGAPORE AND AUSTRALIA.
FOR INSTITUTIONAL, PROFESSIONAL, QUALIFIED INVESTORS AND QUALIFIED CLIENTS IN OTHER PERMITTED COUNTRIES.
Tactical granular views
Six to 12-month tactical views on selected assets vs. broad global asset classes by level of conviction, November 2022
Fixed
Equities View Commentary View Commentary
income
Long U.S. We are underweight. We see long-term yields moving up
We are underweight. Neither earnings expectations Treasuries further as investors demand a greater term premium.
Developed nor valuations fully reflect the coming recession.
markets We prefer to take a sectoral approach –and prefer Short U.S. We are neutral. We remain invested in the front end due to
energy, financials and healthcare. Treasuries attractive income potential.
Global
We are overweight. We see breakeven inflation rates
inflation-
We are underweight. The Fed is set to raise rates underpricing the persistent inflation we expect.
linked bonds
United States into restrictive territory. Earnings downgrades are
starting, but don’t yet reflect the coming recession. We turn underweight the long end. We expect a return of
European
term premium to push long-term yields up. We see higher
government
inflation persisting and sharp rate hikes as a risk to
bonds
peripheral spreads.
We are underweight. The energy price shock and
Europe
policy tightening raise stagflation risks.
We are underweight. Perceptions of fiscal credibility have
UK gilts
not fully recovered. We prefer short-dated gilts for income.
We are underweight. We find valuations expensive
UK after the strong relative performance versus other We are neutral. Policymakers have been slow to loosen
China govt
DM markets thanks to energy sector exposure. policy to offset the slowdown, and they are less attractive
bonds
than DM bonds.
We are neutral. We like still-easy monetary policy
We add to our overweight. High-quality corporates’ strong
Japan and increasing dividend payouts. Slowing global Global IG
balance sheets imply IG credit could weather a recession
growth is a risk. credit
better than stocks.
We are neutral. Activity is restarting, but we see We are overweight. We see the asset class as a high-quality
U.S. agency
China on the path to lower growth. Tighter state exposure within a diversified bond allocation. Soaring U.S.
China MBS
control of the economy makes Chinese assets mortgage rates have boosted potential income.
riskier, in our view.
Global high We are neutral. We prefer up-in-quality credit exposures
We are neutral. Slowing global growth will weigh on yield amid a worsening macro backdrop.
Emerging markets EMs. Within the asset classes, we lean toward
commodity exporters over importers. EM hard We are neutral. We see support from higher commodities
currency prices yet it is vulnerable to rising U.S. yields.
We are neutral. China’s near-term cyclical rebound
Asia ex-Japan is a positive, yet we don’t see valuations compelling
EM We cut EM debt to neutral after its strong run. We see
enough to turn overweight.
local currency better opportunities for income in DMs.
We are neutral amid a worsening macro outlook. We don’t
Underweight Neutral Overweight nPrevious view Asia fixed find valuations compelling enough yet to turn more
income
positive on the asset class.
Past performance is not a reliable indicator of current or future results. It is not possible to invest directly in an index.Note: Views are from a U.S. dollar perspective. This material represents an assessment of the market environment at a specific time and is
not intended to be a forecast or guarantee of future results. This information should not be relied upon as investment adviceregarding any particular fund, strategy or security.
111555 22002223 mouitdlyoeoakr outlook
BBIIIIMM11122222UU//MM--22661127194375--1155//1166

--- PAGE 16 ---
BlackRock Investment Institute
The BlackRock Investment Institute(BII) leverages the firm’s expertise to provide insights on the global economy, markets, geopolitics and long-term asset allocation –
all to help our clients and portfolio managers navigate financial markets. BII offers strategic and tactical market views, publications and digital tools that are
underpinned by proprietary research.
General disclosure: This material is intended for information purposes only, and does not constitute investment advice, a recommendation or an offer or solicitation to purchase or sell any securities to any person in any jurisdiction in which an offer,
solicitation, purchase or sale would be unlawful under the securities laws of such jurisdiction. This material may contain estimates and forward-looking statements, which may include forecasts and do not represent a guaranteeof future performance. This
information is not intended to be complete or exhaustive and no representations or warranties, either express or implied, aremade regarding the accuracy or completeness of the information contained herein. The opinions expressed are as of November
2022 and are subject to change without notice. Reliance upon information in this material is at the sole discretion of the reader. Investing involves risks.
In the U.S. and Canada, this material is intended for public distribution. In the European Economic Area (EEA): this is Issued by BlackRock (Netherlands) B.V. is authorised and regulated by the Netherlands Authority for the Financial Markets. Registered
office Amstelplein1, 1096 HA, Amsterdam, Tel: 020 –549 5200, Tel: 31-20-549-5200. Trade Register No. 17068311 For your protection telephone calls are usually recorded. In the UK and Non-European Economic Area (EEA) countries: this is
Issued by BlackRock Advisors (UK) Limited, which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority. Registered office: 12 Throgmorton Avenue, London, EC2N 2DL, Tel: +44 (0)20 7743 3000. Registered in England and Wales No.
00796793. For your protection, calls are usually recorded. Please refer to the Financial Conduct Authority website for a listofauthorised activities conducted by BlackRock. In Italy, For information on investor rights and how to raise complaints please go
tohttps://www.blackrock.com/corporate/compliance/investor-rightavailable in Italian.For qualified investors in Switzerland: This document is marketing material. This document shall be exclusively made available to, and directed at, qualified investors
as defined in Article 10 (3) of the CISA of 23 June 2006, as amended, at the exclusion of qualified investors with an opting-outpursuant to Art. 5 (1) of the Swiss Federal Act on Financial Services ("FinSA"). For information on art. 8 / 9 Financial Services
Act (FinSA) and on your client segmentation under art. 4 FinSA, please see the following website: www.blackrock.com/finsa. For investors in Israel: BlackRock Investment Management (UK) Limited is not licensed under Israel’s Regulation of Investment
Advice, Investment Marketing and Portfolio Management Law, 5755-1995 (the “Advice Law”), nor does it carry insurance thereunder.In South Africa, please be advised that BlackRock Investment Management (UK) Limited is an authorized financial
services provider with the South African Financial Services Board, FSP No. 43288. In the DIFCthis material can be distributed in and from the Dubai International Financial Centre (DIFC) by BlackRock Advisors (UK) Limited —Dubai Branch which is
regulated by the Dubai Financial Services Authority (DFSA). This material is only directed at 'Professional Clients’ and no other person should rely upon the information contained within it. Blackrock Advisors (UK) Limited -Dubai Branch is a DIFC Foreign
Recognised Company registered with the DIFC Registrar of Companies (DIFC Registered Number 546), with its office at Unit 06/07, Level 1, Al FattanCurrency House, DIFC, PO Box 506661, Dubai, UAE, and is regulated by the DFSA to engage in the
regulated activities of ‘Advising on Financial Products’ and ‘Arranging Deals in Investments’ in or from the DIFC, both of whichare limited to units in a collective investment fund (DFSA Reference Number F000738)In the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia,issued
in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia (KSA) by BlackRock Saudi Arabia (BSA), authorised and regulated by the Capital Market Authority (CMA), License No. 18-192-30. Registered under the laws of KSA. Registered office: 29th floor, OlayaTowers –Tower B,
3074 Prince Mohammed bin AbdulazizSt., OlayaDistrict, Riyadh 12213 –8022, KSA, Tel: +966 11 838 3600. The information contained within is intended strictly for Sophisticated Investors as defined in the CMA Implementing Regulations. Neither
the CMA or any other authority or regulator located in KSA has approved this information. The information contained within, doesnot constitute and should not be construed as an offer of, invitation or proposal to make an offer for, recommendation to
apply for or an opinion or guidance on a financial product, service and/or strategy. Any distribution, by whatever means, of theinformation within and related material to persons other than those referred to above is strictly prohibited. In the United Arab
Emiratesis only intended for -natural Qualified Investor as defined by the Securities and Commodities Authority (SCA) Chairman Decision No. 3/R.M. of 2017 concerning Promoting and Introducing Regulations. Neither the DFSA or any other authority or
regulator located in the GCC or MENA region has approved this information. In the State of Kuwait, those who meet the description of a Professional Client as defined under the Kuwait Capital Markets Law and its Executive Bylaws. In the Sultanate of
Oman, to sophisticated institutions who have experience in investing in local and international securities, are financially solventand have knowledge of the risks associated with investing in securities. In Qatar, for distribution with pre-selected institutional
investors or high net worth investors. In the Kingdom of Bahrain, to Central Bank of Bahrain (CBB) Category 1 or Category 2 licensed investment firms, CBB licensed banks or those who would meet the description of an Expert Investor or Accredited
Investors as defined in the CBB Rulebook. The information contained in this document, does not constitute and should not be construed as an offer of, invitation, inducement or proposal to make an offer for, recommendation to apply for or an opinion or
guidance on a financial product, service and/or strategy. In Singapore, this is issued by BlackRock (Singapore) Limited (Co. registration no. 200010143N). This advertisement or publication has not been reviewed by the Monetary Authority of Singapore.
In Hong Kong, this material is issued by BlackRock Asset Management North Asia Limited and has not been reviewed by the Securities and Futures Commission of Hong Kong. In South Korea, this material is for distribution to the Qualified Professional
Investors (as defined in the Financial Investment Services and Capital Market Act and its sub-regulations). In Taiwan, independently operated by BlackRock Investment Management (Taiwan) Limited. Address: 28F., No. 100, SongrenRd., Xinyi Dist., Taipei
City 110, Taiwan. Tel: (02)23261600. In Japan, this is issued by BlackRock Japan. Co., Ltd. (Financial Instruments Business Operator: The Kanto Regional Financial Bureau.License No375, Association Memberships: Japan Investment Advisers
Association, the Investment Trusts Association, Japan, Japan Securities Dealers Association, Type II Financial Instruments FirmsAssociation.) For Professional Investors only (Professional Investor is defined in Financial Instruments and Exchange Act). In
Australia, issued by BlackRock Investment Management (Australia) Limited ABN 13 006 165 975 AFSL 230 523 (BIMAL). The material provides general information only and does not take into account your individual objectives, financial situation,
needs or circumstances. In China, this material may not be distributed to individuals resident in the People’s Republic of China (“PRC”, for such purposes, excluding Hong Kong, Macau and Taiwan) or entities registered in the PRC unless such parties have
received all the required PRC government approvals to participate in any investment or receive any investment advisory or investment management services. For Other APAC Countries, this material is issued for Institutional Investors only (or
professional/sophisticated /qualified investors, as such term may apply in local jurisdictions). In Latin America, no securities regulator within Latin America has confirmed the accuracy of any information contained herein. The provision of investment
management and investment advisory services is a regulated activity in Mexico thus is subject to strict rules. For more information on the Investment Advisory Services offered by BlackRock Mexico please refer to the Investment Services Guide available at
www.blackrock.com/mx
©2022 BlackRock, Inc. All Rights Reserved. BLACKROCK is a trademark of BlackRock, Inc., or its subsidiaries in the United States and elsewhere. All other trademarks are those of their respective owners.
BBIIIIMM11122222UU//MM--22661127194375--1166//1166