SOURCE: blackrock/blackrock_2018_midyear.pdf
PAGES: 16

--- PAGE 1 ---
Global
Investment
Outlook
MIDYEAR 2018
BII0718U/E-543652-1702812

--- PAGE 2 ---
FOR INSTITUTIONAL, PROFESSIONAL, QUALIFIED INVESTORS AND QUALIFIED CLIENTS. FOR PUBLIC DISTRIBUTION IN THE US.
We refresh our 2018 investment themes against a backdrop of steady global growth
and strong corporate earnings, but rising uncertainty in the macro outlook. We highlight
key debates from our recent Outlook Forum, such as the implications of trade tensions.
• Themes: our base case sees strong US growth extending positive spillover effects to the rest of the
world, sustaining the global economic expansion. Yet the range of possibilities for the economic
outlook has widened. On the downside: trade war and overheating risks. On the upside: US stimulus-
fuelled surprises. This greater uncertainty – along with rising interest rates – has contributed to
Richard Turnill tightening financial conditions and argues for building greater resilience into portfolios. A rising US
Global Chief
dollar squeezes dollar-funded entities including emerging markets (EMs) with large external debt loads.
Investment Strategist
BlackRock Investment
• Outlook debate: the market regime that brought outsized risk-adjusted returns in 2017 is changing.
Institute
Rising leverage in pockets of the credit markets is a concern, but we see no flashing red lights yet –
and view liquidity as a greater risk. Global trade disputes pose risks to market sentiment and growth.
SETTING THE SCENE .......3 A populist Italian government and immigration tensions have raised the risk of European fragmentation,
but we expect the eurozone to muddle through this year. We see China’s economy as steady in the
near term, even as deleveraging poses slowdown risks.
2018 THEMES ..............4–6
• Market views: we remain pro-risk but have tempered that stance given the uneasy equilibrium we
Wider range of growth outcomes
see between rising macro uncertainty and strong earnings. We prefer US equities over other regions.
Tighter financial conditions
Greater portfolio resilience We still see momentum equities outperforming, and prefer quality exposures over value. In fixed
income, we favour short-term bonds in the US and take an up-in-quality stance in credit. Rising risk
premia have created value in some EM assets. We like selected private credit and real assets for
OUTLOOK DEBATE .....7–10
diversification. We see sustainable investing adding long-term resilience to portfolios.
Market regime change
Global trade risks
European fragmentation
China’s balancing act
MARKETS ..................11–15
Fixed income
Equities Jean Boivin Isabelle Mateos y Lago Kate Moore Jeff Rosenberg
Commodities and currencies
Global Head of Research Chief Multi-Asset Strategist Chief Equity Strategist Chief Fixed Income Strategist
Thematic investing
BlackRock Investment BlackRock Investment BlackRock Investment BlackRock Investment
Assets in brief Institute Institute Institute Institute
2 GLOBAL INVESTMENT OUTLOOK SUMMARY
BII0718U/E-543652-1702812

--- PAGE 3 ---
FOR INSTITUTIONAL, PROFESSIONAL, QUALIFIED INVESTORS AND QUALIFIED CLIENTS. FOR PUBLIC DISTRIBUTION IN THE US.
Setting the scene Market moods
Main themes in global economy, 2015–2018
Market sentiment has shifted markedly. 2017 was a year of upside growth
2015 2017 2018
surprises and muted inflation – and unusually low volatility. That set the stage U.S. spurt offsets
Activity deteriorates Upside surprises in
for outsized risk-adjusted returns across markets. Growth across the world eurozone and China eurozone downside;
China steady
Fast forward to 2018: sentiment on many of these key market drivers has
Inflation rising to
Disinflation and Downside surprises
shifted. The Market moods graphic tells the story. The growth picture is still Inflation target in the U.S.;
deflation fears in the U.S.
subdued elsewhere
bright overall. Inflation risks look more two-way, and financial conditions are
tightening as US rates rise. Monetary policy is shifting, with the Fed pushing Policy & Credit spreads Fewer Fed hikes than Faster pace of Fed
financial widen; doubt over expected; easing hikes priced in;
on with normalisation and the European Central Bank (ECB) set to wind down conditions policy effectiveness conditions tightening conditions
its asset purchases by year-end. The Bank of Japan looks poised to keep its Fears over Chinese Trade actions and
Macro Rising confidence in
ultra-easy policy on hold as it awaits a sustainable increase in inflation. The uncertainty currency crash, economic expansion fiscal stimulus widen
growth slowdown range of outcomes
big change in 2018: a rise in macro uncertainty, with potential trade wars
and US overheating risks. How dark is the mood? Not nearly as bad as 2015,
as the graphic seeks to capture. Sad Neutral Happy
Source: BlackRock Investment Institute, July 2018. Note: for illustrative purposes only.
Market sentiment has turned cautious in 2018 as macro uncertainty grows.
Leader board
Returns reflect markets facing macro uncertainty and tightening financial
Asset performance in the first half of 2018
conditions. See the Leader board chart. The rising cost of US dollar financing
Brent crude oil
has hurt EMs, especially those dependent on external funding. The range of
Momentum equities
asset price moves (the lines in the chart) reflect increased volatility. This spurred US dollar index
US equities
debate on market regime changes at our Outlook Forum. See page 7. Macro 10-year German bund
Developed equities
uncertainty could yet increase further. A potential upside: if uncertainty lifts, European equities YTD 2018 performance
Global high yield
equities could rip. Copper prices – a barometer of industrial demand – have 10-year US Treasury 2018 range
Global investment grade
weakened on global trade tensions that we see persisting. See page 8. Japanese equities
10-year Italian BTP
Idiosyncratic risks are key return drivers. Italian government debt has suffered EM US dollar debt
EM equities
as a new populist government refocused market attention on the risk of
Copper
European fragmentation. See page 9. US stocks have outpaced other global -10 0 10 20%
markets on strong earnings growth and a more favourable market composition. Past performance is not a reliable indicator of current or future results. It is not possible to invest directly in an index.
Source: BlackRock Investment Institute, with data from Thomson Reuters, July 2018. Notes: data are through 29 June.
See page 12. Crude oil topped the scorecard for the first half, fuelled by falling
The dots show total returns of asset classes in local currencies. Exceptions are commodities and emerging, DM and
net supply that we see lasting in the second half. See page 13. momentum equities, which are denominated in the US dollar. Indexes or prices used are: Brent crude spot, MSCI World
Momentum, DXY, S&P 500, Datastream 10-Year Benchmark Government Bond (Germany, Italy, US), MSCI World, MSCI
Europe, Bank of America Merrill Lynch Global High Yield, Bank of America Merrill Lynch Global Broad Corporate, Topix,
The change in market mood has led to muted or negative returns.
JP Morgan EMBI Global Composite, MSCI Emerging Markets and copper spot price.
3 SETTING THE SCENE
BII0718U/E-543652-1702812

--- PAGE 4 ---
FOR INSTITUTIONAL, PROFESSIONAL, QUALIFIED INVESTORS AND QUALIFIED CLIENTS. FOR PUBLIC DISTRIBUTION IN THE US.
Uneven growth
BlackRock Growth GPS vs. G7 consensus, 2015–2018
2.5%
2.0
1.5
4 2018 THEMES WIDER RANGE OF GROWTH OUTCOMES
htworg
PDG
launnA
GPS vs. consensus
US 0.20%
Japan 0.02%
Canada 0.01%
Eurozone -0.14%
G7 consensus UK -0.15%
G7 BlackRock Growth GPS
2015 2016 2017 2018
Source: BlackRock Investment Institute, with data from Bloomberg and Consensus Economics, July 2018. Notes: the
BlackRock Growth GPS shows where the 12-month forward consensus GDP forecast may stand in three months’ time. The
G7 consensus is the 12-month consensus GDP forecast as measured by Consensus Economics. The inset chart shows the
current difference in percentage points between the BlackRock GPS and consensus for the countries/regions shown. The
eurozone is a GDP-weighted composite of Germany, France, Italy and Spain. Forward estimates may not come to pass.
Fatter tails
Distribution of two-year forward US GDP forecasts, 2018 vs. 2017
stsacerof
fo
ycneuqerf
evitaleR
Theme 1: wider range of growth outcomes
We see steady global growth ahead – but a broader set of possible
outcomes. The US is the growth engine, propelled by fiscal stimulus. Our Click to view
GPS interactive
BlackRock Growth GPS – which combines traditional macro indicators with
big data insights – points to real US GDP growth beating consensus and
pushing up G7 growth. See the Uneven growth chart. We see positive
spillover effects, especially to EMs.
Our GPS suggests modest downside risk in eurozone growth estimates – but
a stabilisation at above-trend levels. We see China’s economy as resilient
in the near term, as outlined on page 10. Inflation looks poised to rise near
the Fed’s target in the US but remain far below target in other developed
economies. Economic growth boosts corporate earnings. Yet the risks are
two-sided: US stimulus could accelerate capex and lift potential growth – or
trade wars and/or inflation-driven overheating could incite a downward shift.
Global growth is becoming uneven, with some upside potential in the US.
The range of possibilities for the economic outlook is widening. This is the
most significant development in the macro environment this year. A rising
dispersion in consensus forecasts for US GDP growth provides evidence. June 2018 June 2017
(2020 forecast) (2019 forecast)
Economists see a wider range of potential outcomes by 2020, and the tails
(outliers) of the distribution have widened. See the Fatter tails chart.
On the upside, there is a chance for US stimulus-fuelled surprises. On the
Growth forecasts have
downside, that same stimulus could spark economic overheating. Resulting become more dispersed
inflationary pressures could prompt a quicker pace of Fed tightening and
bring forward the end of the current business cycle. Any further escalation
in tit-for-tat trade actions also could have a knock-on effect on business
confidence, hitting growth. See page 9. The market’s adjustment to these
higher levels of uncertainty will be a key theme for the remainder of 2018, 0 1 2 3%
we believe, and is already being mirrored in higher risk premia across asset Annual US GDP growth
classes. See page 5 for details.
Source: BlackRock Investment Institute, with data from Consensus Economics, June 2018.
Notes: the lines show the distribution of two-year forward US GDP forecasts as at June 2018 and June 2017. The vertical
Hefty US fiscal stimulus and rising trade tensions muddy the macro outlook. axis shows the relative frequency of each forecast. Forward-looking estimates may not come to pass.
BII0718U/E-543652-1702812

--- PAGE 5 ---
FOR INSTITUTIONAL, PROFESSIONAL, QUALIFIED INVESTORS AND QUALIFIED CLIENTS. FOR PUBLIC DISTRIBUTION IN THE US.
Derating
Equity market forward price-to-earnings ratios, 2013–2018
18
US
15
Europe
Japan
12
Emerging
markets
9
5 2018 THEMES TIGHTER FINANCIAL CONDITIONS
oitar
E/P
drawroF
Uncertainty premium
Drivers of 10-year US Treasury real yield, 2016–2018
Growth
Other
2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018
Source: BlackRock Investment Institute, with data from Thomson Reuters, July 2018. Note: the lines show the 12-month
forward price-to-earnings (P/E) ratios for the MSCI USA, MSCI Europe, MSCI Japan and MSCI Emerging Market indexes.
Indexes are unmanaged. It is not possible to invest directly in an index.
dleiy
laer
ni
egnahC
Theme 2: tighter financial conditions
Financial conditions have started to tighten. Higher interest rates, a stronger
US dollar and less-easy monetary policy crimp the flow of money through the 0.8
Change in real yield
financial system. US real (inflation-adjusted) yields are grinding higher as the
0.6
Fed presses on with its normalisation. The bulk of the change in yields since
0.4
mid-2016 has been driven by rising growth expectations. See the green area
in the Uncertainty premium chart. Yet in 2018, markets have been building 0.2
an extra risk premium into bond yields – reflecting increasing uncertainty.
0
See the light blue area. Some important context: real yields are ticking higher –
-0.2
but are yet to break out of the top end of their five-year historical range.
Tighter funding conditions have played a role in this year’s EM hardships – July 2016 Jan. 2017 July Jan. 2018 June
including Argentina and Turkey, countries with big external financing needs. Source: BlackRock Investment Institute, with data from Bloomberg, June 2018. Notes: the chart shows the estimated
breakdown of the drivers of the US 10-year real yield since July 2016 in percentage points. The green area shows the share
See page 6 for details. Further gains in the US dollar could cause more pain, attributed to changes in market expectations of economic growth. The blue area shows the rest of the yield movement
explained by non-growth factors. The grey line shows the change in the 10-year real yield, based on the yield of 10-year US
including for global banks that rely on dollar funding.
Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities. The breakdown is estimated using a statistical model similar to that outlined in this
IMF research paper. Growth is attributed as the key driver when real yields and equity prices move in the same direction.
Rising interest rates and a strengthening US dollar are tightening financial
conditions, with ripple effects across markets.
Investors are demanding more compensation for risk in 2018. This is serving
up some opportunities. Equity valuation multiples have fallen in all major regions
as prices have lagged strong earnings growth. See the Derating chart. This
affirms our preference for equities within a diversified portfolio, even as our
enthusiasm is more tempered. Read more on page 12.
Higher US short-term rates – hovering around 2.5% on the two-year Treasury
as at midyear – have big implications across markets. There is renewed
competition for capital and less need to stretch for yield when (US dollar-
based) investors can get above-inflation returns in short-term 'risk-free' debt.
See page 11. The result is higher risk premia all around. Beyond equities,
we believe the repricing has made selected hard-currency EM debt look
attractive again, both relative to EM local debt and to alternatives such as
developed market credit.
Higher risk premia are creating value in pockets of the capital markets.
BII0718U/E-543652-1702812

--- PAGE 6 ---
FOR INSTITUTIONAL, PROFESSIONAL, QUALIFIED INVESTORS AND QUALIFIED CLIENTS. FOR PUBLIC DISTRIBUTION IN THE US.
EM vulnerabilities
EM current account balances versus currency performance, June 2018
10%
0
-25
-50
-7.5 -5 -2.5 0 2.5 5 7.5 10%
6 2018 THEMES GREATER PORTFOLIO RESILIENCE
DSU
.sv
ycnerruC
Poland Malaysia South Korea
Chile
India China
Russia Thailand
South Africa Indonesia
Mexico
Brazil External borrowers have
seen their currencies fall
Turkey
Argentina
Current account balance as share of GDP
Source: BlackRock Investment Institute, with data from Thomson Reuters and IMF, June 2018. Note: the dots show the
12-month change in the spot currency exchange rate versus the US dollar on the vertical axis, and show the IMF estimate
of the current account balance as a share of gross domestic product (GDP) for 2018 on the horizontal axis.
Quality time
Performance of momentum and quality relative to global equities, 2018
108
We see a place for
quality in portfolios
104
100
98
ecnamrofrep
evitaleR
Theme 3: greater portfolio resilience
Tighter financial conditions have been felt most acutely in EM assets. A rising
US dollar has hit the currencies of countries most dependent on borrowing in
hard currency – those with large external deficits. See the EM vulnerabilities
chart. The good news: many EMs are in better shape today than in past crises,
with improved current account deficits, willingness to tighten monetary policy
and – in some cases – appetite for structural reforms to unleash growth.
Other bouts of volatility this year underscore the need for portfolio resilience.
Think of the VIX tantrum in February, 2018 tied to leveraged short positions
Click to view
in equity volatility, the explosive sell-off in Italian government bonds, and the Emerging markets marker
tech sector suffering a brief shake-out of popular long positions. How to make
portfolios more resilient? Consider shortening duration in fixed income,
going up-in-quality across equities and credit, and increasing diversification.
As uncertainty picks up, so does the importance of portfolio resilience.
We prefer to take risk in equities and still favour momentum. We prefer
quality over value amid steady global growth but rising uncertainty around
the outlook. Momentum has been the market leader, but quality companies
demonstrating high profitability and low leverage have also outperformed
Momentum
global equities broadly. See the Quality time chart. This was evident as trade
fears ratcheted up. We see higher-quality stocks outperforming in times of
rising macro uncertainty and risk aversion. We find many such companies in
the US, where earnings growth fuelled by the tax overhaul offers an edge.
Quality
We favour US short duration in fixed income but longer-term US Treasuries and
German bunds should play their traditional role cushioning any growth shocks.
See Summer of ’69. We prefer an up-in-quality stance in credit. Thematic
investing such as focusing on companies that excel on environmental, social and
governance (ESG) metrics can also lend long-term resilience to portfolios, we
Jan. Feb. March April May June
believe. See page 14. For investors who can access private markets, we favour
Past performance is not a reliable indicator of current or future results. It is not possible to invest directly in an index.
selected real assets and private credit with low correlations to market swings.
Source: BlackRock Investment Institute, with data from MSCI, July 2018. Note: the lines represent the performance of
the MSCI ACWI Momentum Index and the MSCI ACWI Quality Index relative to the MSCI ACWI, rebased to 100 at the
We see quality exposures bringing a measure of resilience to portfolios. start of 2018. Data are through 29 June.
BII0718U/E-543652-1702812

--- PAGE 7 ---
FOR INSTITUTIONAL, PROFESSIONAL, QUALIFIED INVESTORS AND QUALIFIED CLIENTS. FOR PUBLIC DISTRIBUTION IN THE US.
Competition for capital
Short-term US Treasury and credit yields, 2010–2018
3%
Higher short-term US yields Short-term
are a sea change US IG credit
2
1
Two-year
US Treasury
0
2010 2012 2014 2016 2018
7 OUTLOOK DEBATE MARKET REGIME CHANGE
dleiY
Past performance is not a reliable indicator of current or future results. It is not possible to invest directly in an index.
Source: BlackRock Investment Institute, with data from Thomson Reuters and Bloomberg Barclays, June 2018.
Note: the lines show the yield on the Datastream 2-year Benchmark US Government Bond Index and Bloomberg Barclays
US Credit 1-3 Year Index.
Rising leverage
US corporate leverage vs. default rates, 1996–2018
48
40
32
oitar
PDG-ot-tbeD
16%
8
0
Default
rate
Outlook debate: market regime change
Ultra-easy monetary policies nudged investors out of ‘risk-free’ assets – and
into riskier ones. Investors’ move out the risk spectrum, in some cases
applying leverage to meet return goals, inflated valuations. The process may
be shifting into reverse. Higher returns on short-term bonds and other cash-
like investments have attracted flows and provided a lower-risk alternative to
equities and other risk assets. Short-term US credit yields top 3% for the first
time in years. See the Competition for capital chart, and page 11.
The competition for capital from rising US short-term rates is a sea change
for US investors − but not all markets have been affected. Consider euro-
based investors who face 3% hedging costs to buy US assets due to interest
rate differentials and other factors. This makes eurozone credit more
attractive to them.
Rising US short-term rates represent a sea change for US investors after
years of stretching for yield.
Rising leverage, looser lending standards and tight credit spreads often have
signalled equity bull markets near a peak. Where are we today? US non-
financial leverage has risen to record highs, yet corporate high yield default
US high yield defaults
rates are relatively subdued. See the Rising leverage chart. We see some signs US corporate leverage
of concern, such as a glut of debt issued by companies at the bottom rung of
the investment grade (IG) ladder – some to finance mergers and acquisitions
in key sectors. Tightening financing conditions could tighten the screws
on more leveraged issuers, but we see no flashing red lights yet. Earnings
growth is keeping pace with debt issuance (IG companies) or exceeding it
(high yield). Poor market liquidity in times of market stress is our bigger worry.
A recent sharp sell-off in Italian government bonds showed that in some
popular trades the doors are wide open going in, but really narrow going out.
The worst-case scenario: holders of illiquid bonds turn to their more liquid
1996 2000 2004 2008 2012 2018
assets to raise cash, causing a chain reaction from IG credit to equities.
Source: BlackRock Investment Institute, with data from Moody’s, June 2018. Note: US corporate leverage is defined as the
Corporate leverage is rising, but we see poor liquidity as the greater risk.
stock of non-financial corporate debt divided by GDP.
BII0718U/E-543652-1702812

--- PAGE 8 ---
FOR INSTITUTIONAL, PROFESSIONAL, QUALIFIED INVESTORS AND QUALIFIED CLIENTS. FOR PUBLIC DISTRIBUTION IN THE US.
Growing angst
US-China economic tensions BGRI, 2008–2018
4
2
0
-2
2008 2010 2012 2014 2016 2018
8 OUTLOOK DEBATE GLOBAL TRADE RISKS
erocs
IRGB
China becomes top Obama pivots Trump tariff
US foreign creditor toward Asia announcement
Xi takes reins Trump nomination
Obama-Xi summit US election
Source: BlackRock Investment Institute, with data from Thomson Reuters, June 2018. Notes: we identify specific words
related to this geopolitical risk and use text analysis to calculate the frequency of their appearance in the Thomson Reuters
Broker Report and Dow Jones Global Newswire databases as well as on Twitter. We then adjust for whether the language
reflects positive or negative sentiment, and assign a score. A zero score represents the average BGRI level over its history
from 2003 up to that point in time. A score of one means the BGRI level is one standard deviation above the average. We
weigh recent readings more heavily in calculating the average. The BGRI’s risk scenario is for illustrative purposes only
and does not reflect all possible outcomes, as geopolitical risks are ever-evolving.
Imbalancing act
Current account balance for major economies, 1995–2018
$1
The US has persistent
trade gaps
Eurozone
0.5
Japan
China
0
US
-0.5
-1
1995 2000 2005 2010 2015 2018
)snoillirt
DSU(
ecnalab
tnuocca
tnerruC
Outlook debate: global trade risks
Trade risks weigh on our outlook. US-China economic tensions have been
heating up, our BlackRock Geopolitical Risk Indicator shows, with trade the
hot button. See the Growing angst chart. The tensions go far beyond the
bilateral trade gap; the real rivalry centres on China’s technology development
programme – and its competitive and national security implications for the US.
Negotiating on tariffs and imports will likely prove easier than getting China to
compromise on tech and other strategic initiatives. We see a prolonged period
Click to view
of tensions as a result, including around restrictions on Chinese investments in geopolitical risk dashboard
the US and transfer of technology to China. Importantly, there is bipartisan
support in the US Congress to be tough on China when it comes to trade.
A further sharp escalation in trade actions globally could derail the economic
expansion. First, falling business confidence may lead companies to delay
or cancel investment plans. Second, tariffs can push up costs and depress
demand. Integrated global supply chains risk amplifying this impact.
Neither the US nor China wants a full-blown trade war, in our view.
Yet structural rivalry means tensions are likely to heat up and persist.
US-China disputes are front and centre, but part of a broader trend. The
US administration's willingness to challenge the rules of the post-war global
trade order has put it at odds with traditional allies as well. A key sore point:
the persistent US trade deficit – offset by surpluses elsewhere. See the
Imbalancing act chart. The White House has shown an aversion to multilateral
deals, instead looking to address imbalances bilaterally.
This is reflected in the US withdrawal from the Trans Pacific Partnership
trade pact and efforts to retool the North American Free Trade Agreement
(NAFTA). US tariffs on steel and other imports have sparked retaliation
by some large trading partners. With no easy fix, trade actions are likely
to carry on, stoking bouts of volatility and feeding macro uncertainty.
See Macro uncertainty on the rise.
Source: BlackRock Investment Institute, with data from OECD, June 2018. Notes: the bars show the annual current account
We see trade disputes feeding uncertainty about the global growth outlook. balance for each economy. 2018 numbers are based on OECD forecasts. Forward-looking estimates may not come to pass.
BII0718U/E-543652-1702812

--- PAGE 9 ---
FOR INSTITUTIONAL, PROFESSIONAL, QUALIFIED INVESTORS AND QUALIFIED CLIENTS. FOR PUBLIC DISTRIBUTION IN THE US.
Jumping ship
Net fund flows to European equity funds, 2017–2018
$6
3
0
-3
Investors have cooled
on European assets
-6
2017 2018
9 OUTLOOK DEBATE EUROPEAN FRAGMENTATION
)snoillib
DSU(
swofl
dnuf
teN
Spread out
Eurozone two-year government bond spreads vs. German bunds, 2010–2018
Italy Spain
Portugal
France
Source: BlackRock Investment Institute, with data from EPFR, June 2018. Note: the bars show weekly net flows to mutual
funds and exchange-traded funds in billions of US dollars.
)stniop
egatnecrep(
daerps
dleiY
Outlook debate: European fragmentation
Italy’s new anti-establishment government has upped the risk of European
Yield spread
6
fragmentation. A post-election standoff and fears of a euro exit shook regional
Italy 1.4%
bond markets. Spreads between Italian and German government bonds soared. Portugal 0.6%
Spain 0.4%
See the Spread out chart. The fear is that Italy will break EU rules on fiscal
France 0.1%
4
spending. Its 2019 budget will be a key signpost. Migration is adding to
tensions in the EU; a recent stop-gap deal papers over the cracks for now.
We believe peripheral bond markets are too sanguine about Europe’s
2
vulnerabilities. The European Union (EU) is not ready to deal with systemic bank
failures or stress in a large sovereign bond market, in our view. High debt-to-
GDP ratios and non-performing loans again become a stress if growth falters.
0
US hostility toward global trade may have a silver lining if it pushes regional
2010 2012 2014 2016 2018
leaders to recognise a stronger EU is in their interests. French and German
Source: BlackRock Investment Institute, with data from Thomson Reuters, July 2018. Notes: the lines show the difference
leaders have pledged to deepen integration, including around a common
between the yield on the benchmark two-year government bond of each country and the German equivalent in
eurozone budget. The problem: there is a lack of consensus within the EU. percentage points. The vertical axis is capped at 6%. Portuguese spreads climbed as high as 19.5% in late 2011.
We expect Europe to muddle through this year, with no breakup but also
dim prospects for further integration in the near term.
The outlook for European assets has soured. Disappointing growth partly
reflects an inventory build-up in the latter half of 2017. Recent manufacturing
surveys point to stabilisation, yet we find consensus growth expectations need
to temper further. Investor sentiment has soured. See the Jumping ship chart.
We see brighter equities prospects elsewhere, especially in the US. Value
sectors, which appear less compelling absent a cyclical upswing, dominate in
Europe. Banks are a source of worry – still grappling with shaky balance sheets,
rising US dollar-funding costs and limp loan demand. All of this underpins our
underweight of European stocks. Looming risks and sluggish core inflation are
likely to keep the ECB on its slow path to normalisation. The central bank is set
to wind down its bond buying this year but hold off on rate rises until after mid-
2019. Financial fragilities make the risk of a policy misstep more acute.
We are underweight Europe because we see brighter prospects elsewhere.
BII0718U/E-543652-1702812

--- PAGE 10 ---
FOR INSTITUTIONAL, PROFESSIONAL, QUALIFIED INVESTORS AND QUALIFIED CLIENTS. FOR PUBLIC DISTRIBUTION IN THE US.
Holding firm
China Growth GPS vs. composite PMI, 2015–2018
54
BlackRock GPS
52
Actual PMI
50
China’s growth
looks to be steadying
48
10 OUTLOOK DEBATE CHINA’S BALANCING ACT
level
IMP
anihC
Expansion
Contraction
2015 2016 2017 2018
Source: BlackRock Investment Institute, with data from Caixon/Markit and Thomson Reuters, July 2018. Notes: the green
line is the GPS showing where the Caixin composite PMI may stand in three months’ time. The blue line shows the
current PMI level. Data are through 29 June.
Credit crackdown
Annual growth in China bank claims as a share of GDP, 2008–2018
40%
China has cracked down
Non-bank
on non-bank lending financial
institutions
20
Government
Loans
0
2008 2010 2012 2014 2016 2018
htworg
smialc
knab
desilaunnA
Outlook debate: China’s balancing act
Trade tensions with the US and elevated domestic debt levels are
concerns. Yet we see China’s near-term outlook as resilient. The country aims
to improve the quality of its growth, not just the quantity. It is pushing for
more consumption – and less investment as a share of economic activity.
All of this comes amid reform progress, financial de-risking and slower credit
growth. Getting this transition right is tricky, and any missteps could lead to
bursts of volatility in Chinese asset prices. The rest of the world will have to
adjust to a slower but more sustainable Chinese growth rate. The transition
could be painful if China’s growth slows more sharply than markets expect.
The BlackRock China GPS shows growth steadying in the short run. See the
Holding firm chart. The big data signals that power our GPS include earnings
guidance from Chinese firms and the language used in global earnings calls.
These paint a slightly rosier growth picture than traditional data suggest.
We see China in a balancing act: aiming to delever without a big growth hit.
Beijing has stepped up efforts to shore up its financial system.
Key developments: a newly operational Financial Stability and Development
Committee, work toward a unified regulatory framework and a crackdown
on non-bank financing. Non-bank lending has slumped as a result. See the
Credit crackdown chart. These are steps in the right direction, but the stability
of China’s opaque financial system remains a key medium-term risk.
The People’s Bank of China is likely to keep injecting liquidity into the economy
to offset the economic drag from deleveraging. Growing monetary policy
divergence with the US is likely to push down on China’s currency. A weaker
yuan may ease the trade-off between deleveraging and growth − but also
could become a sticking point in trade talks and a catalyst for capital outflows.
China’s equity and debt markets are slowly opening up. The gradual addition
of China A-shares to global indexes is a key step that we see offering investors
broader exposure to China’s market.
Source: BlackRock Investment Institute, with data from the People’s Bank of China, June 2018. Notes: the chart shows the
annualised monthly growth in various China bank claims as a share of GDP. Bank claims include loans as well as claims
Financial stability remains a key risk for China in the medium term. on the government and non-bank financial institutions.
BII0718U/E-543652-1702812

--- PAGE 11 ---
FOR INSTITUTIONAL, PROFESSIONAL, QUALIFIED INVESTORS AND QUALIFIED CLIENTS. FOR PUBLIC DISTRIBUTION IN THE US.
Moving on up
US money market fund assets and two-year Treasury yields, 2008–2018
$4 3%
Higher yields put ‘safe’
income back in the game
3.5 2
Money market Two-year US
fund assets Treasury yield
3 1
2.5 0
2008 2010 2012 2014 2016 2018
11 MARKETS FIXED INCOME
)snoillirt
DSU(
stessa
dnuF
Bond
yield
Past performance is not a reliable indicator of current or future results. It is not possible to invest directly in an index.
Sources: BlackRock Investment Institute, with data from the Investment Company Institute (ICI) and Thomson Reuters,
June 2018. Notes: the blue line represents the total assets under management of US money market funds. The green line
represents the two-year Treasury yield.
Diverging fortunes
Emerging debt and US high yield spreads vs. US Treasuries, 2016–2018
8
Wider spreads have
US high yield
given EMD an edge
6
4
Emerging US dollar debt
2
)stniop
egatnecrep(
daerpS
Fixed income
Unprecedented monetary policy accommodation is slowly giving way to
normalisation – with big investment implications. For US dollar-based investors,
normalisation brings a restoration: cash makes a comeback to portfolios. The
Moving on up chart highlights the increase in flows to cash-like instruments
as short rates have risen. Yields for two-year Treasuries and short-maturity
IG corporates are now well above the level of inflation. That means these assets
can once again play their traditional portfolio role – preservation of principal.
The renewed appeal of cash is primarily a US story for now. Eurozone
investors, for example, still face negative interest rates at home and a hefty
cost of hedging for venturing into US dollar assets. European corporate
debt is looking more attractive for euro-based investors after a recent sell-off.
A big spike in rates is the key risk – a development that we view as unlikely
given the ECB is likely to keep rates on hold into the second half of 2019.
Higher short-end rates make cash-like investments more attractive to
US-dollar-funded investors – and raise the bar for riskier assets.
With higher US short rates has come dollar strength. This, along with the
heightened competition for capital, hit the most vulnerable areas: EMs with
large US dollar debt financing requirements. A repricing of risk in Argentina,
Turkey and Brazil shows the potential fallout of higher yields. These dynamics
also flipped a switch in EM debt: as US rates rose and dollar-denominated
EM bond spreads widened, the historical yield advantage of local- over hard-
currency EMD vanished. Relative value now favours hard-currency EM bonds.
There’s also a case for favouring hard-currency EMD over US credit. Spreads
have tightened in the latter asset class, paced by the outperformance of the
riskiest portions of the market. Wider spreads in EMD make valuations more
attractive. See the Diverging fortunes chart. We also see floating-rate bank
2016 2017 2018
loans having an edge over high yield bonds. The former have lower duration
Past performance is not a reliable indicator of current or future results. It is not possible to invest directly in an index.
and benefit from rising income as short rates reset higher.
Sources: BlackRock Investment Institute, with data from JP Morgan and Bloomberg Barclays, June 2018. Note: the
lines show option-adjusted spreads versus US Treasuries for the JP Morgan EMBI Global Diversified Index and Barclays
In credit, we prefer hard-currency EMD and floating-rate bank loans. Bloomberg US High Yield Index in percentage points.
BII0718U/E-543652-1702812

--- PAGE 12 ---
FOR INSTITUTIONAL, PROFESSIONAL, QUALIFIED INVESTORS AND QUALIFIED CLIENTS. FOR PUBLIC DISTRIBUTION IN THE US.
Spending upswing
Global capex growth by sector, 1991–2018
80%
Tech leads the business
spending uptick
40
Technology
Energy
Other
0
-40
1991 1995 1999 2003 2007 2011 2015 2018
12 MARKETS EQUITIES
htworg
xepac
raey-revo-raeY
Source: BlackRock Investment Institute, with data from Thomson Reuters, June 2018. Note: the lines show the year-over-
year growth in capital expenditures on a trailing 12-month basis for the energy and technology sectors within the MSCI
All-Country World Index (ACWI) and for the ACWI excluding energy and technology.
Cash cushion
Relative performance of cash-rich stocks and equity market volatility, 2013–2018
140 20%
Equity volatility
120 15
100 10
Cash-rich versus
cash-poor stocks
80 5
2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018
ecnamrofrep
evitaleR
Equity
volatility
Equities
Capex is picking up globally – with tech leading the charge. See the
Spending upswing chart. Years of policy uncertainty and low confidence kept
company purse strings tight. Their re-opening in an age of technology and
evolving consumer behaviours has much of the spending directed at intellectual
property and innovation – a boon for tech firms. The spending uptick could
spill into 2019 as companies adjust to new US tax laws – provided trade
tensions do not pinch confidence. We see some notes of caution rearing.
The story is not US-only. High capacity utilisation rates and ageing assets in
Europe point to room for spending. In China, investment in strategic initiatives
is set to accelerate even as it declines in heavy industries. History shows big
spending can eat into stock returns. Yet spending discipline among many
companies gives us confidence that profit margins and earnings could be
well insulated. Read more in Capex: the good, the bad and the murky.
Unmatched earnings growth and spending discipline underscore our
preference for US over other developed market equities.
Where do equity investors look for resilience today? High-yielding ‘bond
proxy’ stocks earned their stripes as defensive picks for much of the past
decade as bond yields were slow to revert back to pre-crisis levels. But
upward rate and inflation momentum challenges the prevailing thinking, as
we discuss in Building the right defence in equities. A good defence today
requires stocks with the potential to weather volatility and outrun inflation.
To us, this means a focus on quality and dividend growth. ‘Quality’ companies,
by our definition, are able to generate and grow free cash flow while
maintaining healthy balance sheets. Companies able – and willing – to
increase dividends appear better poised to withstand volatility. See the
Cash cushion chart. We see a tougher go for highly bid ‘stable’ dividend
stocks as higher US rates make ‘risk-free’ bonds bigger competition.
Past performance is not a reliable indicator of current or future results. It is not possible to invest directly in an index.
We favour an allocation to quality companies that can increase dividends Source: BlackRock Investment Institute, with data from Bloomberg, June 2018. Notes: the green line shows the relative
performance of cash-rich stocks versus cash-poor stocks in the Russell 1000 Index, rebased to 100 as at January 2013. It is
while maintaining healthy balance sheets. calculated by dividing the performance of the stocks with the top decile of cash-to-assets ratios by the stocks with the bottom
decile of the ratio. Volatility (blue line) is represented by a three-month rolling average of the CBOE Volatility Index (VIX).
BII0718U/E-543652-1702812

--- PAGE 13 ---
FOR INSTITUTIONAL, PROFESSIONAL, QUALIFIED INVESTORS AND QUALIFIED CLIENTS. FOR PUBLIC DISTRIBUTION IN THE US.
Sizing up supply and demand
Global oil net supply, 2014–2018
2
1
0
Upper end
-1
Lower end
-2
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018
13 MARKETS COMMODITIES AND CURRENCIES
)slerrab
fo
snoillim(
ylppuS
A global supply deficit
supports oil prices
Source: BlackRock Investment Institute, with data from the International Energy Agency, June 2018. Notes: the chart
shows the quarterly balance between global oil supply and demand. The solid line represents historical data, and
the dotted lines the upper and lower ends of an estimated range for the second half of 2018. We assume an OPEC
output increase of 1 million barrels a day (mb/d) and the growth in non-OPEC nations' oil supply and demand at levels
consistent with the average of the second halves of the past four years. The 'upper end' scenario assumes production
losses of 0.5 mb/d in Venezuela, 0.3 mb/d in Iran, 0.2 mb/d each in Libya and West Africa. The 'lower end' scenario
assumes production losses of 0.5 mb/d in Venezuela, 0.6 mb/d in Iran, 0.4 mb/d each in Libya and West Africa. These
assumptions are based on BlackRock’s market analysis.
Dented by the dollar
US dollar and EM asset performance, 2018
level
xednI
Commodities and currencies
Oil prices have been on a tear – and we see them well supported in the
second half. A rise in Middle East-related geopolitical risks, along with
favourable supply-demand dynamics, has been driving the gains. We see a
recent decision by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC)
to ease oil output restrictions doing little to knock oil off its solid footing.
The most likely scenario, in our view: production losses from key OPEC
members, potential US supply outages and strong global appetite keep
demand ahead of supply into year-end − supporting prices. We expect this
even in an ‘upper-end’ scenario where supply disruptions ease. See the blue
line in the Sizing up supply and demand chart. Yet we see oil-related equities
as the shinier proposition. Share prices of energy companies have lagged the
run-up in oil itself. It’s been a tougher slog for other commodities. Industrial
metals began to trail off along with softer economic data earlier in the year.
We keep a favourable view given our outlook for sustained global growth.
Oil prices look well supported, but we see greater opportunities in
oil-related stocks that have yet to catch up to the rise in spot prices.
105
US dollar strength is tightening global financial conditions – with implications
USD
for EM assets in particular. The performance of EM equities and local-currency
debt has flagged since the dollar’s April turnaround. See the Dented by the
100
dollar chart. With both oil and the US dollar climbing of late – an atypical scenario
EM equities
– oil-importing countries in EM and beyond are dealt a double whammy.
The US dollar is aided by attractive interest rate and growth differentials 95
versus other economies. Higher short-end US rates also make the US dollar
EM local debt
appealing just as geopolitical uncertainty has investors more willing to dial
90
back risk and sit tight in cash. Our fair value metrics suggest the US currency
is looking expensive, limiting its upside. But we see the US dollar catching a Jan. Feb. March April May June
bid in any global risk-off episode sparked by risks such as a global trade war. Past performance is not a reliable indicator of current or future results. It is not possible to invest directly in an index.
Source: BlackRock Investment Institute, with data from Thomson Reuters Datastream, June 2018. Notes: the US dollar is
The US dollar has support in higher global uncertainty and a widening yield represented by the DXY US dollar index. EM local debt represents the total return performance of the JP Morgan GBI-EM
Global Diversified Composite Unhedged USD Index. EM equities represents the performance of the MSCI EM Index relative
differential versus other economies. But we see its rise capped. to that of the MSCI ACWI Index, excluding dividends. The data are rebased to 100 at the start of 2018.
BII0718U/E-543652-1702812

--- PAGE 14 ---
FOR INSTITUTIONAL, PROFESSIONAL, QUALIFIED INVESTORS AND QUALIFIED CLIENTS. FOR PUBLIC DISTRIBUTION IN THE US.
Talk of the town
Percentage of global corporate conference calls that mention AI terms, 2010–2018
Companies are talking
more about AI
14 MARKETS THEMATIC INVESTING
sllac
ecnerefnoc
fo
egatnecreP
Carbon efficiency
Equity performance by carbon intensity, 2012–2018
6%
Q1
3 (most
improved)
0 Q2
Q4
-3 Q3
Q5
(least
-6 improved)
MACHINE LEARNING
M MACHINE LEARNING
20% ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE MACHINE LEARNING M ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE
MACHINE LEARNING M
ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE M
MACHINE LEARNING
ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE
M MACHINE LEARNING
M ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE
MACHINE LEARNING ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE M MACHINE LEARNING M
ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE MACHINE LEARNING
M ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE
M MACHINE LEARNING IFICIAL INTELLIGENCE MMM
MACHINE LEARNING
ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE
MACHINE LEARNING M
15 M ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENC M E ACHINE LEARNING
IFICIAL INTELLIGENCE MMM
M MACHINE LEARNING
ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE
M ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE
ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENBCIGE DMA TA BIG DATA BIG DATA
ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGEBNIGC EDATA BIG DATA BIG DATA
M ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGB BEI ING G CD DEA A T T A A B B I I G G D D A A T T A A B B I I G G D D A A T T A A
ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE MTA EFFICIENCIES TA
BIG DATA BIG DATA BIG DATA
BIG DATA BIG DATA BIG DATA
BIG DATA BIG DATA BIG DATA
10 BIG DATA BIG DATA BIG DATA
BIG DATA BIG DATA BIG DATA
BIG DATA BIG DATA BIG DATA
BIG DATA BIG DATA BIG DATA
BIG DATA BIG DATA BIG DATA
2010 2012 2014 2016 2018
Sources: BlackRock Investment Institute, with data from FactSet’s CallStreet, as at June 2018. Note: the chart shows
the percentage of English-language transcripts of global conference calls that have mentioned keywords in the field of
artificial intelligence, machine learning or big data on a 12-month rolling basis.
ecnamrofrep
evitaleR
Thematic investing
Portfolio resilience rises in importance amid macro and market uncertainty.
One way to achieve it, in our view, is via sustainable investing. Our research
suggests entities with high ESG scores may be more resilient to perils ranging
from ethical lapses to climate risks. This implies a focus on ESG may offer
some cushion during market downturns. We believe ESG can be implemented
across asset classes without compromising long-term risk-adjusted returns,
as we show in Sustainable investing: a ‘why not’ moment.
The caveats: ESG data are patchy, and headline scores paint only a partial
picture. Investors need to look at how the individual components can affect
2012 2014 2016 2018
returns. One eye-opener in the ‘E’ category: we found companies that
Past performance is no guarantee of current or future results. It is not possible to invest directly in an index.
reduced their carbon footprint the most outperformed the carbon laggards. Sources: BlackRock Investment Institute, Thomson Reuters Asset4 and MSCI, April 2018. Notes: the analysis above
calculates the carbon intensity of global companies in the Asset4 database by dividing their annual carbon emissions
The rate of change mattered more than absolute emission levels, even in by annual sales. Companies are ranked and bucketed in five quintiles based on their year-over-year change in carbon
intensity. We then analyse each quintile’s stock price performance versus the MSCI World Index. Most improved means
polluting industries. See the Carbon efficiency chart.
the 20% of companies that posted the greatest annual decline in carbon intensity. Data are from March 2012 through
March 2018. The example is for illustrative purposes only.
ESG’s quality bent can add resilience to portfolios, we believe.
Artificial intelligence (AI) strikes notes of both fear and fascination. Yet the
illusion of a robot revolution is tempered by a more mundane reality: AI’s
greatest value today is in enhancing existing functions. The payoff is efficiency
gains and cost savings across industries, and it’s a subject of much discussion.
Mentions of AI, machine learning and big data on company conference calls
have more than doubled since 2010. See the Talk of the town chart.
It’s not all lip service, and it goes beyond tech. In banking, chat bots are
assisting with transactions. In consumer sectors, AI-powered marketing helps
segment customers for better targeting and sales promotions. Potential in
health care ranges from improvements in imaging and diagnostics to remote
patient monitoring. Yet it’s very early days, and speed of AI adoption will
separate winners from losers. Talent is also scarce. For now, the opportunities
reside with entities that can facilitate and propagate AI to other industries.
We see opportunity in AI ‘processors’ – companies providing the
intelligence and infrastructure to enable AI application across industries.
BII0718U/E-543652-1702812

--- PAGE 15 ---
FOR INSTITUTIONAL, PROFESSIONAL, QUALIFIED INVESTORS AND QUALIFIED CLIENTS. FOR PUBLIC DISTRIBUTION IN THE US.
Assets in brief
Tactical views on assets, July 2018
Asset class View Comments
▲ Unmatched earnings momentum, corporate tax cuts and fiscal stimulus underpin our positive view. We like momentum. We prefer quality over value
US
amid steady global growth but rising uncertainty around the outlook. Financials and technology are our favoured sectors.
▼ Relatively muted earnings growth, weak economic momentum and heightened political risks are challenges. A market dominated by value sectors
Europe
also makes the region less attractive in the absence of a growth upswing.
— The market’s value orientation is a challenge without a clear growth catalyst. Yen appreciation is another risk. Positives include shareholder-friendly
Equities Japan
corporate behaviour, solid company earnings and support from Bank of Japan stock buying.
▲ Economic reforms, improving corporate fundamentals and reasonable valuations support EM stocks. Above-trend expansion in the developed world
EM
is another positive. Risks such as a rising US dollar, trade tensions and elections argue for selectivity. We see the greatest opportunities in EM Asia.
▲ The economic backdrop is encouraging, with near-term resilience in China and solid corporate earnings. We like selected Southeast Asian markets
Asia ex-Japan
but recognise a worse-than-expected Chinese slowdown or disruptions in global trade would pose risks to the entire region.
US We see rates rising moderately amid economic expansion and Fed normalisation. Longer maturities are vulnerable to yield curve steepening but
▼
government should offer portfolio ballast amid any growth scares. We favour shorter-duration and inflation-linked debt as buffers against rising rates and
bonds inflation. We prefer 15-year mortgages over their 30-year counterparts and versus short-term corporates.
US municipal — Solid retail investor demand and muted supply are supportive, but rising rates could weigh on absolute performance. We prefer a neutral duration
bonds stance and up-in-quality bias in the near term. We favour a barbell approach focused on two- and 20-year maturities.
— Sustained growth supports credit, but high valuations limit upside. We favour investment grade (IG) credit as ballast to equity risk. A temporary surge in
US credit
M&A-related issuance has cheapened IG valuations. Higher-quality floating rate debt and shorter maturities look well positioned for rising rates.
Fixed
European ▼ The ECB’s negative interest rate policy has made yields unattractive and vulnerable to the improving growth outlook. We expect core eurozone yields
income
sovereigns to rise. We are cautious on peripherals given tight valuations, political risks in Italy and the upcoming end to the ECB’s net asset purchases.
European ▼ Increased issuance and political risks have widened spreads and created some value. Negative rates have crimped yields – but rate differentials make
credit currency-hedged positions attractive for US-dollar investors. We are cautious on subordinated financial debt despite cheaper valuations.
— Valuations of hard-currency debt have become more attractive relative to local-currency bonds and developed market corporates. Further valuation
EM debt
support comes from slowing supply and strong EM fundamentals. Trade disputes and a tightening of global financial conditions are downside risks.
Asia fixed — Stable fundamentals, cheapening valuations and slowing issuance are supportive. China’s representation in the region’s bond universe is rising.
income Higher-quality growth and a focus on financial sector reform are long-term positives, but a sharp China growth slowdown would be a challenge.
Commodities
Declining global crude inventories underpin oil prices, with geopolitical tensions providing further support. We are neutral on the US dollar. Rising
Other and *
global uncertainty and a widening US yield differential with other economies provide support, but an elevated valuation may constrain further gains.
currencies
Note: views are from a US dollar perspective as at July 2018. *Given the breadth of this category, we do not offer a consolidated view.
▲
Overweight
—
Neutral
▼
Underweight
15 MARKETS ASSETS IN BRIEF
BII0718U/E-543652-1702812

--- PAGE 16 ---
The BlackRock Investment Institute (BII) provides connectivity between BlackRock’s portfolio managers,
originates market research and publishes insights. Our goals are to help our fund managers become
better investors and to produce thought-provoking content for clients and policymakers.
General disclosure: this material is prepared by BlackRock and is not intended to be relied upon as a forecast, research or investment advice, and is not a recommendation, offer or solicitation to buy or sell any securities or to adopt any investment
strategy. The opinions expressed are as of July 2018 and may change as subsequent conditions vary. The information and opinions contained in this material are derived from proprietary and nonproprietary sources deemed by BlackRock to be
reliable, are not necessarily all-inclusive and are not guaranteed as to accuracy. As such, no warranty of accuracy or reliability is given and no responsibility arising in any other way for errors and omissions (including responsibility to any person by
reason of negligence) is accepted by BlackRock, its officers, employees or agents. This material may contain ‘forward-looking’ information that is not purely historical in nature. Such information may include, among other things, projections and
forecasts. There is no guarantee that any forecasts made will come to pass. Reliance upon information in this material is at the sole discretion of the reader. Index data cited herein are from Thomson Reuters, unless otherwise noted.
In the US, this material is for public distribution. In the EU, issued by BlackRock Investment Management (UK) Limited (authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority). Registered office: 12 Throgmorton Avenue, London, EC2N 2DL.
Registered in England No. 2020394. Tel: 020 7743 3000. For your protection, telephone calls are usually recorded. BlackRock is a trading name of BlackRock Investment Management (UK) Limited. This material is for distribution to Professional
Clients (as defined by the FCA Rules) and Qualified Investors and should not be relied upon by any other persons. For qualified investors in Switzerland, this material shall be exclusively made available to, and directed at, qualified investors as
defined in the Swiss Collective Investment Schemes Act of 23 June 2006, as amended. Issued in the Netherlands by the Amsterdam branch office of BlackRock Investment Management (UK) Limited: Amstelplein 1, 1096 HA Amsterdam, Tel: 020
- 549 5200. In South Africa, please be advised that BlackRock Investment Management (UK) Limited is an authorised Financial Services provider with the South African Financial Services Board, FSP No. 43288. In Dubai: this information can be
distributed in and from the Dubai International Financial Centre (DIFC) by BlackRock Advisors (UK) Limited — Dubai Branch which is regulated by the Dubai Financial Services Authority (DFSA) and is only directed at 'Professional Clients’ and no other
person should rely upon the information contained within it. Neither the DFSA or any other authority or regulator located in the GCC or MENA region has approved this information. This information and associated materials have been provided for
your exclusive use. This document is not intended for distribution to, or use by, any person or entity in any jurisdiction or country where such distribution would be unlawful under the securities laws of such. Any distribution, by whatever means, of
this document and related material to persons other than those referred to above is strictly prohibited. For investors in Israel: BlackRock Investment Management (UK) Limited is not licensed under Israel's Regulation of Investment Advice,
Investment Marketing and Portfolio Management Law, 5755-1995 (the 'Advice Law'), nor does it carry insurance thereunder. In Singapore, this is issued by BlackRock (Singapore) Limited (Co. registration no. 200010143N). In Hong Kong, this
material is issued by BlackRock Asset Management North Asia Limited and has not been reviewed by the Securities and Futures Commission of Hong Kong. In Korea, this material is for Professional Investors only. In Taiwan, independently operated
by BlackRock Investment Management (Taiwan) Limited. Address: 28/F, No. 95, Tun Hwa South Road, Section 2, Taipei 106, Taiwan. Tel: (02)23261600. In Japan, this is issued by BlackRock Japan. Co., Ltd. (Financial Instruments Business Operator:
The Kanto Regional Financial Bureau. License No375, Association Memberships: Japan Investment Advisers Association, the Investment Trusts Association, Japan, Japan Securities Dealers Association, Type II Financial Instruments Firms Association.)
For Professional Investors only (Professional Investor is defined in Financial Instruments and Exchange Act) and for information or educational purposes only, and does not constitute investment advice or an offer or solicitation to purchase or sells
in any securities or any investment strategies. In Australia, issued by BlackRock Investment Management (Australia) Limited ABN 13 006 165 975, AFSL 230 523 (BIMAL). This material is not a securities recommendation or an offer or solicitation
with respect to the purchase or sale of any securities in any jurisdiction. The material provides general information only and does not take into account your individual objectives, financial situation, needs or circumstances. BIMAL, its officers,
employees and agents believe that the information in this material and the sources on which it is based (which may be sourced from third parties) are correct as at the date of publication. While every care has been taken in the preparation of this
material, no warranty of accuracy or reliability is given and no responsibility for the information is accepted by BIMAL, its officers, employees or agents. No guarantee as to the repayment of capital or the performance of any product or rate of return
referred to in this material is made by BIMAL or any entity in the BlackRock group of companies. In China, this material may not be distributed to individuals resident in the People's Republic of China (PRC, for such purposes, excluding Hong Kong,
Macau and Taiwan) or entities registered in the PRC unless such parties have received all the required PRC government approvals to participate in any investment or receive any investment advisory or investment management services. For other
APAC countries, this material is issued for Institutional Investors only (or professional/sophisticated/qualified investors, as such term may apply in local jurisdictions) and does not constitute investment advice or an offer or solicitation to purchase
or sell in any securities, BlackRock funds or any investment strategy nor shall any securities be offered or sold to any person in any jurisdiction in which an offer, solicitation, purchase or sale would be unlawful under the securities laws of such
jurisdiction. In Canada, this material is intended for permitted clients only. In Latin America and Iberia, this material is for educational purposes only and does not constitute investment advice nor an offer or solicitation to sell or a solicitation of
an offer to buy any shares of any fund (nor shall any such shares be offered or sold to any person) in any jurisdiction in which an offer, solicitation, purchase or sale would be unlawful under the securities law of that jurisdiction. If any funds are
mentioned or inferred to in this material, it is possible that some or all of the funds have not been registered with the securities regulators of Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Mexico, Panama, Peru, Portugal, Spain, Uruguay or any other securities
regulator in any Latin American country and thus might not be publicly offered within any such country. The securities regulators of such countries have not confirmed the accuracy of any information contained herein. The information provided here
is neither tax nor legal advice. Investors should speak to their tax professional for specific information regarding their tax situation. Investment involves risk including possible loss of principal. International investing involves risks, including risks
related to foreign currency, limited liquidity, less government regulation, and the possibility of substantial volatility due to adverse political, economic or other developments. These risks are often heightened for investments in emerging/developing
markets or smaller capital markets.
©2018 BlackRock, Inc. All Rights Reserved. BLACKROCK is a registered trademark of BlackRock, Inc. All other trademarks are those of their respective owners.
Lit. No. I-BII-MID-OUTLOOK-18 117580-I-0718
BII0718U/E-543652-1702812