SOURCE: fidelity/fidelity_2018.pdf
PAGES: 2

--- PAGE 1 ---
Fidelity International - 2018 Outlook
Outlook 2018
Returns Brought Forward
Fidelity International | December 2017
2017 was a vintage year for global equity markets, with indices delivering strong double-digit returns in dollar
terms. Markets have heavily discounted future earnings growth and some stocks have been pushed up to
lofty valuations. As a result, markets have essentially 'brought forward' or front-loaded much of 2018's returns
into 2017. By extension, 2018 looks like being a much tougher environment for equity investors to navigate. I
think we will be lucky to see positive returns from equities over the next 12 months. That said, I don't think we
will see an outright bear market in stocks either as the conditions are not yet in place. Rather, we are likely to
see a sustained consolidation phase or perhaps a slight downward drift in equity markets. This is certainly a
year to concentrate on active alpha rather than market beta.
2018 returns? You mostly had them in 2017...
We have travelled a long way in this bull market now and the drivers that have sustained it are beginning to
look played out. When you begin to run out of fundamental reasons for the market to go up, then you are
entering bubble territory. We have seen some remarkable price moves in hot areas of the US stock market -
particularly in the IT sector - that look to be sentiment driven and go beyond the fundamentals.
When you experience a bull market that has run as hard as this one - the second-longest in the post WWII
era - it is understandable that investors are nervous. This bull market has been unloved since the recovery
from the 2009 financial crisis. The fact that we have not seen strong and sustained retail investor buying and
widespread euphoria around stocks is unusual - but it does make me more sanguine on the risk of a
significant correction.
I think you would have to change your interest rate expectations quite dramatically to justify a significant
decline, or you would need to see a recession. Neither of these risks carries a high probability in my view.
Yet, the outlook is certainly tempered by the fact that markets have front-loaded 2018's returns. Given that
such strong expectations on earnings growth have already been baked into current share prices, I think we
are likely to see a de-rating in the late part of this cycle, as investors realise markets have run ahead of
reality. Such a de-rating would be closely connected to any evidence that interest rates will gradually begin to
normalise around the world.
A few years ago, I predicted the US S&P500 to reach 2700 by the end of the decade. We are currently
hovering around 2600. Since I see no fundamental reason to change my target, this suggests nominal upside
of 3-4% between now and the end of decade, plus dividends. For these more modest returns to be attractive
to investors we need volatility to stay relatively low; if volatility rises this may not be a sufficient level of return
to warrant the risk.
Page 1/2

--- PAGE 2 ---
Fidelity International - 2018 Outlook
The opportunity for emerging markets to pick up the baton at this late stage of cycle is, I think, problematic.
Much of the good recent performance has been driven by circumstances in which emerging markets always
tend to do well: firmer commodity prices; a weakening in the dollar; and a lower discount rate.
A new interest rate regime
2018 could well be the year that central banks will follow through and actually do what they have said they
will do on interest rates. One of the notable features of capital markets over the last four years is the
disconnect between central banks' own forecasts of interest rate trajectories and the market's expectations
for interest rate rises.
Markets have taken a long-running stance that interest rates would not be going up as much as central
bankers' forecasts or dot plots indicated. The reason for this is that markets rightly decided that inflationary
risks lay much more to the downside than to the upside.
However, that could change in 2018, where I think central banks are going to be right, not markets. The risks
to inflation are now much more symmetric than they have been in the past. This will encourage central banks
to deliver on the interest rate rises they promised and for the first time in a while it is markets and investors
that risk being wrong-footed.
The collapse in real interest rates over the last 30 years provided a significant tailwind for the gains we have
seen in equity and bond markets. If and when real interest rates begin to move up, then that tailwind
becomes a headwind.
Possible surprises in 2018
In terms of macroeconomics and geopolitics, the focal points of investor concerns are likely to rotate around
as they have done for some time. Markets have been relatively resilient until now, but this resilience could be
challenged as the process of interest rate normalisation gathers momentum.
The risk of an economic growth slowdown in China remains the principal and perennial macro concern, while
geopolitical worries have flitted from European election risks to North Korean confrontation, and more lately
to the growing tension between Saudi Arabia and Iran.
Indeed, a serious escalation in the latter situation would be a potential 'black swan' event for financial
markets, and investors need to give careful consideration to both geographic and sector portfolio exposures.
Important Information: This document is for Investment Professionals only. Issued by FIL Investments International (FCA registered number 122170),
authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority. Fidelity International refers to the group of companies which form the global investment
management organization. Past performance is not a reliable indicator of future results. IC16-110
Page 2/2