SOURCE: fidelity/fidelity_2019.pdf
PAGES: 7

--- PAGE 1 ---
2019
Market outlook
Changing tracks

--- PAGE 2 ---
2019 outlook
Markets are also prone to over-react to events
Alva Devoy that cloud the short-term outlook. As an investor,
it is important to take a step back at these times
Managing Director
Fidelity International and keep an open mindset.
The return to normal interest rate of last cycle (around 4.5 percent) is simply unaffordable.
While the global aggregate interest rate increased from 1.2 per cent
Quantitative easing has been the only game in town for years but the to 2.2 percent over the last two years, going further than this could
game is now changing. Ten years into the longest bull run in history, risk triggering a new financial crisis, something no central bank is
major dislocations are starting to appear, characterised by bouts of willing to do.
volatility as we return to a more normal investing environment.
Problems in the debt market have the potential to spread to other
parts of the financial system which is why we’re paying attention
The US effect
to the Italian bond market and the Chinese corporate bond market.
In this more volatile environment, we expect US corporate earnings
We’re more concerned about China than Italy. While the Italian bond
growth to slacken in 2019, but remain positive, at around 8 or 9 percent.
market is the biggest in Europe, it’s predominately in the hands of
An unusual set of circumstances boosted year-on-year growth in
domestic investors, who think long term and don’t panic in periods
US earnings per share to an average of around 24 percent in the
of market volatility. The Chinese market is less mature and is
first three quarters of 2018. The cocktail of lower corporate taxes,
experiencing its first ever credit cycle, marked by a first wave of
a reduced regulatory burden, and a growing economy helped the
defaults. Chinese policymakers have a lot of tools available to them
US market outperform those of other countries. These factors are
to stimulate the economy in response but it remains to be seen how
however one-offs and we expect their impact on earnings growth
investors will react.
to fade in 2019. US earnings will grow but at a reduced pace, more
in line with the performance of the real economy. A note on volatility
Companies may well start to see headwinds, such as rising cost Above all else, financial markets dislike uncertainty. Yet markets are
inflation, intensifying in 2019. Labour-intensive sectors are the ones also prone to over-react to events that cloud the short-term outlook.
most exposed, and we will be closely watching the extent to which As an investor, it is important to take a step back at these times and
freight cost inflation and increasing wage costs are borne by keep an open mindset. When we’re prepared at the outset for episodes
consumers. We see a risk that companies will have to absorb some of volatility on the investing journey, we’re less likely to be surprised
of this, putting pressure on margins. when they happen, and more likely to react rationally. By having an
open mindset and a longer-term investment perspective that accepts
The debt threat
short-term volatility, investors can begin to take a more dispassionate
The biggest threat to equities in 2019 is debt. The 10-year quantitative view. Not only does this help with the job of staying focused on long-
easing experiment, coupled with a debt-fuelled boom in China, has term investment goals, it also allows investors to begin to exploit lower
left the world with a big tab to pay. prices rather than lock in losses by emotionally selling at lower prices.
Central banks lowered the cost of debt funding in response to the Thank you for your support of Fidelity throughout 2018 – we look
global financial crisis in 2008, and there is a natural limit to how far forward to continuing to create better futures for your clients with you
and how fast they can normalise it. Given the sheer amount of debt in in 2019.
the global economy, a full return within a few years to the aggregate
1 As at 7 December 2018
Market outlook 1

--- PAGE 3 ---
Australian equities
Paul Taylor In 2019 I believe we’ll see a returned focus to high quality
businesses with strong cash flows and high certainty
Country Head –
Equity Investments of earnings.
Despite dire predictions, I believe 2019 will be a stronger year for the demand and weakening commodity prices. So, strong balance sheets
Australian equity market as much of the uncertainty we’ve experienced but vulnerable commodity prices translate to more mixed prospects
this year will have played out. Interest rates remain low, balance sheets for the sector and the need for investors to have a more selective
are strong, earnings growth is still mid-single digits, valuations have approach. I remain focused on quality, strong cash flow businesses
improved and dividend yields are attractive. I would expect to see that have greater certainty in their earnings outlook.
earnings growth combined with valuation expansion in 2019 driving The sectors I believe to be best positioned in 2019 are consumer
solid investment returns for the calendar year. staples and healthcare. Strong cash flows and greater certainty
To date the Australian Equity Market (ASX 200) has delivered a around earnings are attributes that will be in demand as the market’s
negative 2.5% return for the year following strong returns in both 2016 higher expectations on interest rates and inflation begins to moderate.
and 2017.1 Market concerns around higher interest rates, a US/China In addition, companies and sectors that can deliver growth in this
trade war and declines in the residential property market consumed environment are also likely to be chased by the market as earnings
positive returns from the first half of 2018. growth is proving a rare attribute in these market conditions. I firmly
believe that in strong economic conditions a rising tide is likely to
Outlook for Australian Equities lift all ships, in tougher conditions you really need to back the best
In 2019 I believe we’ll see a returned focus to high quality businesses management teams to deliver a strong strategy and execution.
with strong cash flows and high certainty of earnings. Over the last few The residential property market is also likely to continue its soft landing
years low quality businesses have been pushed up by the stock market in 2019. Residential property prices in Sydney and Melbourne are
on higher inflation and growth expectations. I think this is unlikely to fundamentally over-valued however there isn’t a catalyst for major
continue in 2019 as fundamentals re-exert their dominance. declines but rather a soft deflating of prices. I would expect residential
Personally, I always love these periods in investments markets as it property prices in Sydney and Melbourne to be flat to slightly down
gives me the opportunity to buy the businesses I’ve always wanted to in 2019 which points to a more subdued year for residential property
own at much more attractive valuations. Warren Buffet once said that services and construction related companies.
as an investor, it is wise to be “Fearful when others are greedy and The other key event for markets in 2019 will be the Federal election.
greedy when others are fearful”. It certainly feels like a lot of people While there are concerns around some possible policy changes like
are fearful right now. Is it time to get greedy? Capital Gains Tax (CGT) discount, negative gearing and franking credit
2019 is also looking like another important year for the banks and refunds, it is likely that the election results will bring more certainty.
financial services with the Royal Commission releasing their findings on Australia has had considerable political instability over the last decade
1 February. While the report is unlikely to be pleasant reading it could and the 2019 Federal election result has the potential to bring more
also, interestingly, bring more certainty to the sector as companies stability. Political stability allows companies to make decisions and
start to put poor behaviour and bad press behind them. With more better invest for the future.
attractive valuations, low expectations and high dividend yields, banks 2019 is shaping up as a better year for investment returns in the
could end up having a much improved 2019. Australian share market. More attractive valuations, solid dividend
The resource sector looks to have more mixed prospects ahead. In yields, strong balance sheets and a returned focus to quality, cash
general, balance sheets are strong and management teams are taking flows and fundamentals should provide investors the potential to
a disciplined approach to the cycle. In the past, the majority of blow- reap good rewards.
ups were caused by poor balance sheets so the sector’s disciplined Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to wish you all a wonderful
approach to capital is certainly positive. On the negative side, China holiday season and a fantastic 2019.
is slowing with the potential US /China trade war further subduing
Market outlook 2

--- PAGE 4 ---
Global equities
The current market scenario seems to be where
Amit Lodha one needs to tread cautiously in terms of portfolio
construction, with greater emphasis on finding stocks
Portfolio Manager
Fidelity Global Equities Fund that lose less, rather than gain more.
Late cycle: time for caution or opportunity? How China’s stimulus plan would translate into actual impact is unclear,
as it depends on the monetary and fiscal stimulus size, given the
We believe that we are in the throes of a late-cycle bull market, often constraints of moving from surplus to deficit on the current account.
accompanied by bouts of volatility and recession fears. As we move
On a positive note, the bullish case for global markets involves oil prices
towards 2019, investors must guard against the market rotation, as the
coming down and the US Federal Reserve suggesting that it would take
sectoral distribution of returns tends to change during such periods.
a pause and watch data due to uncertainty from trade-related disputes.
With rising raw material costs and wage pressures, the Fed needs to
2019 investment outlook for global equities
start cutting rates or suggest that it is done. This would be an extremely
Going into 2019, I remain cautious on the outlook for global equities,
Goldilocks-positive scenario (good for growth stocks and bad for value
in view of the risks in the current late-cycle environment. Tightening
stocks). It could also be the time to buy defensives.
US monetary conditions, global trade frictions, slowing Chinese growth,
Italy’s debt problems and rising interest rates at a time of higher Capturing the best opportunities
corporate indebtedness, present headwinds to the global economy
The flattening yield curve and extended debt levels are giving us
and equity markets.
reason to be careful, however the strong corporate earnings growth
So far, the trade tensions and rhetoric around US-China relations have and still tight credit spreads suggest room to run for equity markets.
disproportionately impacted emerging market equities. However, the Although absolute valuations don’t give you a sufficient margin of
inter-linked global value chains mean that bilateral trade tensions safety, on a relative basis compared to fixed income markets, equities
between the world’s two largest economies could have global remain attractively valued.
ramifications. Add to this rising crude oil prices, which are primarily
The current market scenario seems to be where one needs to tread
driven by supply distortions in Iran and Venezuela, are also weighing
cautiously in terms of portfolio construction, with greater emphasis
on oil-importing economies, and this calls for additional caution.
on finding stocks that lose less, rather than gain more.
Within Europe, the market has punished Italian equities and government
Our global equities portfolio is well-diversified across a range of
bonds for the country’s debt-laden budget, and we could expect more
industries and sectors, with no regional and sector bias. Our focus
volatility as negotiations with the European Commission continue. All
remains on bottom-up stock picking, so the regional weightings of
of these issues are interdependent, as the path of the oil price in some
the portfolio are not necessarily a reflection of our top-down view
cases drives the path for bond yields and emerging market currencies.
of the markets.
What is making things more complex is that price signals are
increasingly spurious, as they are driven by algorithms and ETF trading. US and Japan continue to provide interesting bottom-up investment
opportunities. The US growth outlook remains strong, due to robust
Nonetheless, a late cycle is still positive for risk assets, and increased
macroeconomic data, tax cuts and fiscal spending stimulus, while
market volatility can create interesting dislocations and offer interesting
overseas cash repatriation is encouraging buyback activity.
buying opportunities to add value.
At a sector level, the focus is on information technology stocks – less
What could most surprise investors next year? on FANGS and more on old tech names like ORACLE and Microsoft,
which have solid business fundamentals. I have a more positive view
The super bearish case for global equity markets would be the further
on the direction of oil prices, and continue to invest in long-term ideas
acceleration of ongoing trade wars – and it seems to me that trade
in the healthcare space.
and defence are two sides of the same coin. Trade uncertainty lasting
for longer could become a drag for investment, and would be very Overall, I believe that stock-specific fundamentals will remain the key
negative for investors. But I also believe that this would force Chinese driver of equity returns. Consequently, the portfolio continues to focus on
authorities to push even more aggressively towards a stimulus scenario companies that demonstrate strong pricing power, are led by talented
to counter the effects of a slowdown in its economy. management teams and are available at reasonable valuations.
Market outlook 3

--- PAGE 5 ---
Global emerging markets
On the balance of probabilities, my base case is for
Alex Duffy
a choppy but absolute return for EM equities, but with
Portfolio Manager
potentially greater dispersion of returns across regions
Fidelity Global Emerging
Markets Fund than we have witnessed in the last 3-5 years.
Positive returns, despite ongoing volatility On the negative side, without a reasonably timely resolution to the
US-China trade dispute, I see the likelihood of a devaluation of the
Investment risks in 2019 are finely balanced within global emerging renminbi as being quite high. Chinese equities are already discounting
markets. Although we see volatility continuing, we expect a positive a reasonable part of this, however, and so I think that investors
return for emerging market equities next year, with potentially greater could be surprised by positive returns in Chinese stocks, despite
dispersion of returns across regions than we have seen in the last currency devaluation.
3-5 years.
Capturing the best opportunities
2019 investment outlook for global emerging markets
The focus remains on owning well-managed business with attractive
Investment risks in 2019 are finely balanced within global emerging return profiles, an accretive reinvestment opportunity and a valuation
markets (EM). The overarching downside risk to the asset class that offers an adequate margin of safety on a free-cash-flow basis.
remains that of a sustained softening of Chinese economic activity
There are numerous examples of such opportunities across EM and
or worse, a substantial devaluation of the RMB, and a rise in Chinese
I have been concentrating the portfolio in the higher conviction
funding costs leading to pressures on asset quality within the banking
names, as valuations have become more attractive
system and tightening liquidity conditions. The authorities are well
aware of these risk factors and there are multiple ways in which they I view the financial sector as being one of the most interesting areas
can mitigate them – the recent trade truce with the US is a step in of the market, given the balance sheet quality of dominant, retail-
the right direction. facing banking models. These businesses look to be well-positioned
to serve the pent up demand for finance and consumption across
On the positive side, EM equities are finishing a difficult year at
emerging markets.
relatively-attractive valuations, and while earnings estimates in EM Asia
in particular are likely to see further downward revisions, expectations The materials sector also looks to have a number of businesses
are being reset for a much healthier entry point than that which we offering attractive dividends and yields. Such stocks will likely deliver
experienced in December 2017. adequate returns in the current environment and should benefit from
any effort by the Chinese government to stimulate its economy.
On the balance of probabilities, my base case is for a choppy but
absolute return for EM equities, but with potentially greater dispersion
of returns across regions than we have witnessed in the last 3-5 years.
What most surprise investors next year?
Latin American and EMEA (Europe, the Middle East and Africa) equities
outperformed EM Asia, on account of the underperformance of
technology stocks. In many instances, we believe that technology and
internet stocks are relatively expensive, with high expectations built
into consensus forecasts. The leaders of the next bull market are very
rarely the same as the leaders of the prior one.
Market outlook 4

--- PAGE 6 ---
Asia
China is the key for the Asian region, as it faces
Anthony Srom increasing structural risks, such as addressing excessive
debt, which are unlikely to be resolved without having
Portfolio Manager
Fidelity Asia Fund an impact on external financial markets.
Stay selective on Asian equities Investors will need to be very selective about the companies in which
they invest, with an extra focus on companies with strong balance
We expect Asian equity markets to remain challenging, given sheets being necessary to weather this storm.
continued volatility and muted global growth. While we remain
cautiously positioned, we are ready to act on opportunities as What could most surprise investors next year?
they arise.
Two things come to mind.
Three take aways First, some large ‘stimulus’ from China that it can ill afford, whether
it’s infrastructure-led, or personal consumption-led via tax cuts or
1 We expect 2019 to be a challenging year for equities, with
subsidies. Second, the US Federal Reserve begins cutting rates as
the key for the Asian region being how China addresses its
it back-tracks on its Quantitative Tightening.
structural risks.
Either of these is possible should markets fall materially. If this occurs,
2 The US back-tracking on its Quantitative Tightening program
we will look to deploy some of the portfolio’s cash into existing or
and cutting interest rates could surprise markets.
new ideas.
3 We remain focused on companies with strong balance sheets
and resilient demand, as these should see relatively better Capturing the best opportunities
earnings than those more cyclical parts of the market.
With tougher markets and heightened volatility ahead, the portfolio
remains conservatively positioned, however we are ready to act on
2019 investment outlook for Asian equities
opportunities as they arise, such as our recent buying of selective
I think 2019 will be a challenging year for equities, as some of the China A-shares.
excesses from the past decade come to a halt.
The China A-share market was one of the worst performing regional
Many investors point towards increasingly cheaper valuations, markets in 2018, with an indiscriminate sell-off across almost the entire
however I don’t see a huge amount of value, given earnings revisions market providing some interesting stock-specific investment ideas.
are likely to trend down as global economic growth remains muted.
I remain focused on companies with strong balance sheets and
China is the key for the Asian region, as it faces increasing structural resilient demand, as these should see relatively better earnings than
risks, such as addressing excessive debt, which are unlikely to be some of the more cyclical parts of the market. Most of the portfolio’s
resolved without having an impact on external financial markets. India holdings have been sold, however we’ll be ready to buy back
Quantitative Tightening (QT) and deleveraging policies globally into this market should valuations become more attractive.
should mean a continued tightening of liquidity, which is likely to
increase volatility.
Market outlook 5

--- PAGE 7 ---
This document is issued by FIL Responsible Entity (Australia) Limited ABN 33 148 059 009, AFSL No. 409340 (“Fidelity Australia”). Fidelity Australia is a member of the FIL Limited group of companies
commonly known as Fidelity International.
This document is intended for use by advisers and wholesale investors. Retail investors should not rely on any information in this document without first seeking advice from their financial adviser.
This document has been prepared without taking into account your objectives, financial situation or needs. You should consider these matters before acting on the information. You also should
consider the Product Disclosure Statements (“PDS”) for respective Fidelity Australia products before making a decision whether to acquire or hold the product. The relevant PDS can be obtained
by contacting Fidelity Australia on 1800 119 270 or by downloading it from our website at www.fidelity.com.au.
This document may include general commentary on market activity, sector trends or other broad-based economic or political conditions that should not be taken as investment advice. Information
stated herein about specific securities is subject to change. Any reference to specific securities should not be taken as a recommendation to buy, sell or hold these securities. This document may
contain statements that are “forward-looking statements”, which are based on certain assumptions of future events. Actual events may differ from those assumed. While the information contained
in this document has been prepared with reasonable care, no responsibility or liability is accepted for any errors or omissions or misstatements however caused. This document is intended as
general information only. The document may not be reproduced or transmitted without prior written permission of Fidelity Australia.
The issuer of Fidelity’s managed investment schemes is FIL Responsible Entity (Australia) Limited ABN 33 148 059 009. Details about Fidelity Australia’s provision of financial services to retail clients
are set out in our Financial Services Guide, a copy of which can be downloaded from our website at www.fidelity.com.au.
© 2018 FIL Responsible Entity (Australia) Limited. Fidelity, Fidelity International and the Fidelity International logo and F symbol are trademarks of FIL Limited.
fidelity.com.au
Market outlook 6