SOURCE: fidelity/fidelity_2024.pdf
PAGES: 32

--- PAGE 1 ---
This is for investment professionals only and should not be relied upon by private investors

--- PAGE 2 ---
Contents
Overview 3
The economy in 2024 5
Scenario 1: Cyclical recession 9
Scenario 2: Soft landing 1 4
Scenario 3: Balance sheet recession 18
Scenario 4: No landing 22
Asia 26
Sustainability 30
2 Investment Outlook Fidelity International

--- PAGE 3 ---
Overview
More risk, higher yields, and four ways forward
Remarkable changes across economies and markets, combined with a year of political
uncertainty, make forecasting unusually difficult in 2024. Instead, we offer four potential paths
the world could take, each assigned with its own probability.
Andrew McCaffery
Global CIO, Asset Management
I have never managed money on the basis that I which allows us to prepare sooner, spotting signals
know what’s going to happen in 12 months’ time. along the way that either support or refute a given
I may have a view, but good investing needs outcome, so we can adapt accordingly.
discipline, an open mind, and a preparedness to
In our Outlook for the coming year, we lay out
react to the facts as they change.
the four macroeconomic scenarios for developed
Often, it’s difficult to understand big economic, markets that we think investors should keep
social, or political shifts until they are well underway in mind as 2024 unfolds, while our heads of
and new trends are firmly established. We’re in the investment explain what each would mean for
first stages of a dramatic regime change - from their asset class.
low inflation and ever declining interest rates to
And what a year lies ahead. There will be an
something different. That something different will
exceptional run of elections across the world during
come with greater economic volatility and the risk
2024 coinciding with a renewed interest in fiscal
premium for holding assets will therefore be higher.
policy. There is a political desire to maintain high
We expect rates will tend higher and returns on
budget deficits and government intervention in
equity will be much more differentiated across
different forms. Markets will start to exert a greater
countries and regions.
price for that spending. We are going to be talking
In this environment I find it more helpful to consider about the cost of capital a lot in 2024, not just for
different scenarios: the alternate paths economies corporates but for governments, and not only what
and markets could take. My colleagues and I interest costs will do in the short run.
estimate how likely we think each scenario to be,
3 Investment Outlook Fidelity International

--- PAGE 4 ---
The most significant election, of course, will be in Perhaps the biggest shift of all is the effort to
the United States. It has long been a destination build a more sustainable world, and the work by
for safe haven flows and a place to park the policymakers to push companies and investors
proceeds of trade surpluses, helping to fund public further into a transition economy. Engaging with the
and private spending. In a world of reshoring network of regulators and industry groups through
and falling Chinese demand for US goods, the ‘system-wide stewardship’ will continue to be
so-called ‘exorbitant privilege’ that comes with important in 2024 and beyond, a topic our Outlook
issuing the world’s reserve currency appears to be also covers.
waning. These cracks could easily widen in 2024
The world is always uncertain. But this is one of
and present a temptation for the Federal Reserve
those periods when it is not an exaggeration to use
to pause or even reverse monetary measures like
the phrase ‘regime change’. Investors will need to
quantitative tightening.
stay nimble in 2024, ready to navigate each twist
China’s cycle is in a different place, with and turn as the real scenario plays out.
implications for other Asian economies that can
benefit from the country’s demand. Our 2024
Outlook presents scenarios here, too. Meanwhile,
Japan is, like western economies, adjusting to the
end of one era and the beginning of another.
4 Investment Outlook Fidelity International

--- PAGE 5 ---
The economy in 2024
Something will give
The economy continues to deliver surprises but we are confident of one thing: if US and other
developed world interest rates have not peaked already, then they will do so soon. And against
this backdrop growth will stall. We detail four potential scenarios for 2024 and the next leg of a
business cycle which has seen the most intense round of monetary tightening in a generation.
Salman Ahmed
Global Head of Macro and Strategic Asset Allocation
Much of what has surprised central bank officials Markets, where those betting on a downturn have
and financial markets in 2023 stems from our lack already been burned once, are however now lined
of understanding of the deeper economic effects up behind a Goldilocks ‘soft landing’ where the
of the past fifteen years - including the pandemic - rate hikes and the tightening of the past two years
on households and corporations. We will get more will do just enough to gradually return the economy
clarity in the months ahead - on inflation, the optimal and labour market to equilibrium. We have a
level of interest rates, or the stubborn resilience of the different view.
US job market. But investors are rightly nervous that
Our base case for 2024 is a cyclical
the next stage of this cycle will bring more volatility.
recession
Our labour market tightness index is finally
showing signs of easing Resilience driven by fiscally supported consumers
and companies has been the biggest surprise of
100%
2023, but barring something extraordinary, next
year we expect to see the economy finally turn
50%
lower. There are signs it is already doing so. The
buffer of savings built up by households and the
0%
1950 1960 1970 1980 1990 2000 2010 2020 corporate sector in the pandemic is almost drained,
NBER Recession Periods Soft Landing Periods fiscal support should narrow, and there is likely
Fidelity US Labour Market Tightness Indicator
to be a pick-up in refinancing needs at a time of
credit tightening across the board.
Source: Fidelity International, FIL Global Macro Team calculations, Haver Analytics, October 2023.
5 Investment Outlook Fidelity International

--- PAGE 6 ---
US excess consumer savings almost depleted
Aggregate excess savings following recessions
$3tn
$2tn
$1tn
$0tn
$-1tn
0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45
Months since start of recession
1970 1973 1980 1990
2001 2008 2020
Current business activity indicators show
Note: excess savings calculated as the accumulated difference between actual personal savings Europe slowing down faster than the US
and the trend implied by data for 48 months leading up the first month of each recession as
defined by the National Bureau of Economic Research.
Source: Fidelity International, FRBSF Staff calculations, BEA, September 2023.
All of this supports our base case for a cyclical
recession in 2024; inflation has begun to fall but
interest rates will stay higher for longer until there
are clearer signs it is heading back to target.
Central banks will then pivot and cut rates as the
damage to growth becomes obvious.
Source: Fidelity International, FIL Global Macro Team calculations, Refinitiv Datastream, October 2023.
Fundamentally, we continue to think there is simply
a lag between policy tightening and the effects
on the real economy. The transmission channel is
delayed, not broken and the continued stickiness
of inflation points to misaligned expectations that
erocs-Z
have to be balanced out. A moderate recession
should achieve that, driven by tight monetary policy
as the effects of lagged fiscal support melt away in
the developed world. Labour markets will normalise
and restore price stability before we move towards
a recovery at the end of 2024.
Signs of a recession are already apparent in
Europe where the transmission channel is more
effective. This has led the European Central Bank to
start focusing on growth - a trend we think will take
hold in the US next year.
2
1
0
-1
-2
July 2020 July 2021 July 2022 July 2023
US Euro area
Labour markets will normalise
Alternative endings
and restore price stability before
we move towards a recovery at We still see room for other possibilities. Alongside
the end of 2024 a cyclical recession, to which we give a
probability of 60 per cent, our 2024 outlook
considers the investment implications of a more
severe balance sheet recession (10 per cent
probability) that prompts widespread cutbacks
in spending by companies and consumers alike
and judders through the economy, even into
2025, driven by a disruptive reaction to very high
real rates. We consider the chances of the more
6 Investment Outlook Fidelity International

--- PAGE 7 ---
benign soft landing (20 per cent); and a case in However, our research shows such a scenario
which there is no landing in 2024 at all (10 per to be at odds with current inflation and labour
cent), in other words, where the economy holds at market dynamics. Surveys of Fidelity’s equity, fixed
current levels of growth and inflation, provoking income, and private credit analysts show that
central banks into another, albeit incremental, pressure on company labour costs is alive and
round of policy rate rises. well. Geopolitical tensions and the demands of
the energy transition will keep upward pressure
The path of Federal Reserve policy, together
on commodity prices. This in turn will force central
with inflation and growth trajectories, will look
banks to keep interest rates high and sooner or
dramatically different in each scenario and will
later deliver a more dramatic shock to growth.
inevitably be subject to high levels of uncertainty
both in terms of timing and end points.
Four scenarios for 2024
Don’t forget the tails
There are other real threats to growth. China’s
Growth
much feted path to recovery has proved rockier
than hoped. The country’s unique story demands a
set of its own scenarios for 2024 and, on balance,
Note: Inflation rate measured by US Core Personal Consumption Expenditures Price Index. Growth
we think Beijing will manage to hit its growth
by US GDP per annum. Source: Fidelity International, October 2023.
targets this year but will do little more as a period
Markets are still optimistic
of controlled stabilisation comes through.
Under the soft landing scenario backed by current A US election year crystalises the partisan division
market pricing, the decision to keep interest rates that threatens its government’s ability to spend and
higher for longer could further reduce inflation to has the potential to shift geopolitical goalposts
a level where policymakers are comfortable. The meaningfully, in both Europe and Asia.
Fed and others would then respond by loosening
The Russia-Ukraine war continues to fuel commodity
policy, removing the threat of crippling rises in
prices at a time when supply is already tight. Risks
debt payments for households and companies.
emanating from a widening of the Israel-Hamas
Pressure for bigger rises in wages would abate
war into a regional conflict remain, including a
as inflation expectations eased and the labour
potential rise in oil prices which would lead to
market steadied.
another shock to headline inflation. That shock
etar
noitalfnI
The path of Federal Reserve policy,
6% together with inflation and growth
trajectories, will look dramatically
5%
different in each scenario
4%
3%
2%
1%
0%
-3% -2% -1% 0% 1% 2% 3% 4%
Cyclical recession Soft landing
Balance sheet recession No landing
7 Investment Outlook Fidelity International

--- PAGE 8 ---
could lead to damaging rises in interest rates as know. Expect narratives to shift rapidly. Prepare
well as the risk of stagflation down the line. for shorter cycles. Watch for imbalances between
demand and supply, and for lags in the effects
Policymakers will continue to test the limits of the
of policy. A volatile macroeconomic environment
financial system. As the world makes its first ever
demands vigilance.
exit from QE there is much we don’t - and can’t -
The view on the ground
We surveyed analysts across our equity, fixed income, and private credit teams to hear how their sectors
would fare in the different scenarios.
In the table below, upward arrows indicate that most of the responses in the sector are implying a positive
effect and the background colour indicates the strength of those responses. For example, most consumer
staples analysts answered that a cyclical recession will have a positive impact on their sector. The
downward arrow indicates a negative impact, with the shade of red reflecting the strength of responses.
The neutral/no change “-” has a light grey background and indicates lack of clear direction.
Consumer Consumer Information
Energy Financials Healthcare Industrials Materials Telecoms Utilities Real Estate
discretionary staples Technology
Cyclical
recession
Soft
landing
Balance
sheet
recession
No
landing
Strong negative impact Moderately negative impact No clear direction
Moderately positive impact Strong positive impact
Note: Real estate analysts consider both earnings/valuation of listed securities within the real estate space as well as the yield on underlying real assets.
Source: Fidelity International Analyst Survey, October 2023.
8 Investment Outlook Fidelity International

--- PAGE 9 ---
Our base case scenario
A cyclical recession would see a moderate economic contraction followed by a return to growth
in late 2024 or early 2025. Inflation would be sticky for a period before returning to target, with
interest rates staying higher for longer followed by central banks pivoting to cut rates. This is
currently our base case.
Cyclical recession: inflation falls back to target – rates come down after labour market cracks
Opportunity lingers... ...with growth coming later in the year
6%
5%
4%
3%
2%
1%
0%
Q4 2023 Q1 2024 Q2 2024 Q3 2024 Q4 2024
Core PCE (% YoY) Policy rate (FFR - LB)
Source: Fidelity International, October 2023. Note: Inflation rate measured by US Core Personal Consumption Expenditures Price Index. Growth
by US GDP per annum. Source: Fidelity International, October 2023.
etar
noitalfnI
Scenario 1: 60%
Cyclical recession
probability
6%
5%
4%
3%
2%
1%
0%
-3% -2% -1% 0% 1% 2% 3% 4%
Growth
Cyclical recession Soft landing
Balance sheet recession No landing
Investment summary: In our base case scenario, ■ Some cautiousness around cyclical sectors and
a cyclical recession would bring lower economic weaker geographies
growth that could be a worry for small-caps or
■ Inflation-linked bonds preferred as inflation
companies with discretionary sales. Equities (away
remains sticky, although nominal bonds will
from low-quality or small names) would be of
benefit as rates fall
interest, while in fixed income the focus would
■ A potential ‘Goldilocks-zone’ for real estate
remain on short-dated, high-quality credits.
investment
9 Investment Outlook Fidelity International

--- PAGE 10 ---
Scenario 1: Scenario 2: Scenario 3: Scenario 4:
Cyclical Soft Balance sheet No
recession landing recession landing
Multi asset quality names in recession scenarios, with
refinancing concerns feeding into a preference
We regard a cyclical recession as a mildly risk-
in the base case for investment grade credit and
off scenario in which there would still be good
higher-rated high yield issuers.
opportunities for investors who are discerning
about sectors and geographies. Investors shouldn’t We expect inflation in a cyclical recession would
be scared of holding select equity investments be sticky for a while before it fell back to target,
because markets anticipate an economic recovery and so inflation-linked bonds (offering ‘real
later in the year. US equities would be especially yields’) would be preferred to nominal bonds
well positioned. In particular, mid-cap stocks look in this scenario. Markets already price inflation
attractive along with much of the S&P 500 that returning to target, but investors expect that very
have not shared the incredible performance this high real yields will be needed to achieve that.
year of the ‘Magnificent Seven’ stocks (Alphabet, In this scenario, real yields would fall in line with
Amazon, Apple, Meta, Microsoft, Nvidia, and Tesla). growth and central bank expectations.
Valuations look reasonable for these well-run
companies with solid growth prospects. US small-
caps would be more challenged in a slowdown In a recession, India and
or recession scenario given their greater debt Indonesia are markets with good
refinancing needs. defensive qualities that are less
tied to the global cycle
‘Magnificent Seven’ stocks lead S&P 500
performance
180
We would take long positions in certain emerging
160 markets in any scenario, given attractive
valuations and idiosyncratic economic cycles,
140
but our preferences change depending on
120
which scenario emerges. In a recession, India
and Indonesia are markets with good defensive
100
qualities that are less tied to the global cycle. We
80
also favour some emerging market local currency
February 2023 June 2023 October 2023
bonds (with exchange rate hedging) as global
Top 7 Rest S&P 500
interest rates decline, but without any significant
Note: Top seven = Meta, Amazon, Apple, Microsoft, Alphabet, Tesla, Nvidia.
growth concerns impacting the creditworthiness
Source: Goldman Sachs, Fidelity International, October 2023.
of major emerging markets.
This reflects our broader preference for playing
- Henk-Jan Rikkerink
high-quality equities and credit against low-
Global Head of Solutions and Multi Asset
10 Investment Outlook Fidelity International

--- PAGE 11 ---
Scenario 1: Scenario 2: Scenario 3: Scenario 4:
Cyclical Soft Balance sheet No
recession landing recession landing
Fixed income Private credit
Our cyclical recession scenario starts with a In a cyclical recession, our approach would be
period of above-consensus inflation in the first to focus on further reducing risk and allocating to
half of 2024. We would expect a series of upside borrowers with the strongest balance sheets. We
inflation surprises to generate another spell of would expect some support to valuations given the
outperformance for inflation-linked bonds. This expected reversal in interest rates.
would be similar to 2020/2021 when inflation
accelerated and 1 to 10-year inflation-linked bonds
outperformed all-maturity nominals by about 15 A cyclical recession demands a focus
per cent. Upside inflation surprises would suggest on companies where we can have a
a tricky period for nominal bonds in the first half direct influence over the structure and
of 2024, and we would therefore favour medium- documentation of deals
duration inflation-linked bonds over nominal ones in
this scenario.
If the yield curves remain inverted in all major In the senior secured loan market, we would
currencies, we would suggest money market favour defensive sectors and firms with capex-light
funds as a respectable alternative for more business models that have strong visibility on their
cautious investors, as they offer higher yields than earnings. Companies with contracted rather than
government bonds with almost no risk. discretionary sales would be the focus, as well
as those that are likely to have more stable cash
Central banks on high alert for persistent inflation
flows, such as healthcare, technology, and business
should help here. Short-dated, high-quality credit (in
services firms. Debt service costs would start to
GBP, for example) could also work well.
decrease as interest rates came back down.
The later part of 2024, when we anticipate faster-
In this scenario, we recommend being
than-expected cuts from the US Federal Reserve,
overweight on both structured credit and direct
would be a strong period for nominal bonds. It
lending strategies, with a particular focus on
would be the hardest of all asset allocations to
lending to defensive sectors and those with
time, but for investors with a higher risk tolerance,
business-to-business income streams. A cyclical
nominal yields at cycle highs will be irresistible
recession demands a conservative approach
at some point and offer higher betas than are
to credit selection to avoid over-leveraged
available with inflation-linked bonds.
firms, and a focus on companies where we can
- Steve Ellis
have a direct influence over the structure and
Global Chief Investment Officer, Fixed Income
documentation of deals.
There is already plenty of downside risk priced into
the lowest end of the market. And so heading into
a cyclical recession there would be a moment to
11 Investment Outlook Fidelity International

--- PAGE 12 ---
Scenario 1: Scenario 2: Scenario 3: Scenario 4:
Cyclical Soft Balance sheet No
recession landing recession landing
reallocate into interesting, lower-rated assets that The UK meanwhile would do poorly in this
the market has over-discounted - once we had sight scenario because around a fifth of the market is
of the recovery. made up of energy and mining companies. These
would suffer from slowing economic growth. We
- Michael Curtis
would favour international names, in particular
Head of Private Credit Strategies
high-quality, economically-insensitive names
Equities
with recurring revenue and good pricing power
that should see them through a storm. These
Current consensus earnings forecasts look too
businesses can be found across several sectors,
optimistic for this scenario so we would expect
from consumer staples to computer software.
them to be downgraded. It would be worth
looking for cheap stocks in markets such as There could be an interesting dynamic around
Europe and Japan where valuations are far small and mid-cap stocks in this scenario.
from pricing in any kind of recession. Japan is These companies were derated in 2023 as they
especially positive for equity owners thanks to grappled with higher interest rates, and so
a series of corporate governance reforms which have already cheapened in relation to forward
have focused on shareholder returns. We would earnings estimates (although some nervousness
also expect the yen to strengthen if there were about their ability to meet those estimates
interest rate cuts elsewhere. remains). If there is further economic pressure
in the early part of the year, then small-caps
could come under pressure, but when we do see
some relief on interest rates, smaller stocks may
have more recovery potential. Unlike Big Tech,
We would favour high-quality,
which supercharged the market in 2023, smaller
economically-insensitive names
companies are not ‘priced for perfection’ so could
with recurring revenue and good
offer more of a margin of safety.
pricing power
- Ilga Haubelt
Head of Equities, Europe
- Martin Dropkin
Head of Equities, Asia Pacific
In a cyclical recession we would be cautious
Real estate
around European cyclicals like industrials but would
expect to find opportunities among financials, In many ways, a cyclical recession would be the
which are attractively valued. Bond proxies like ‘Goldilocks-zone’ for property investment because
utilities, consumer staples, and healthcare also a small amount of inflation is positive for real
typically do well in a cyclical recession. estate. Furthermore, given that property prices
12 Investment Outlook Fidelity International

--- PAGE 13 ---
Scenario 1: Scenario 2: Scenario 3: Scenario 4:
Cyclical Soft Balance sheet No
recession landing recession landing
have already adjusted (particularly in Europe change, moving out of a period of sustainable
and especially in the UK), and if interest rates income and into one of sustainable growth.
have peaked, then there would only be upside Previously, in a world of near-zero interest rates,
to come. In this scenario, there would certainly property was invested in chiefly for its yield
be opportunities to take on more risk. There is (especially compared with other asset classes
already a good balance of supply and demand such as bonds). Now, we expect it to return
across European markets, meaning 2024 should to its traditional role of a ‘hybrid’ asset class
prove to be a strong vintage to invest in real combining sustainable income with equity-like
estate under this scenario. capital growth.
It is important to note that as well as dealing - Neil Cable
with the shifting macroeconomic backdrop, the Head of European Real Estate Investments
real estate market is undergoing a structural
The view on the ground
How our analysts think their sectors would fare in a cyclical recession
“Real estate investment trusts typically “Consumer cyclical is a higher beta
trade like bonds. If rates come sector dependent on discretionary
down, at least the valuation should consumer spending. These
expand, although fundamentals companies would be among those
will be hit in line with the more severely hurt by a recession of
overall economy.” any size.”
Real estate equity analyst Consumer discretionary
North America fixed income analyst
North America
“This scenario should lead to an
increase in commodity prices, which
should have a negative impact on
materials companies.”
Materials equity analyst
India
13 Investment Outlook Fidelity International

--- PAGE 14 ---
Soft landing: inflation back to target; rates back to neutral
Risk on... ... as economies avoid recession
6%
5%
4%
3%
2%
1%
0%
Q4 2023 Q1 2024 Q2 2024 Q3 2024 Q4 2024
Core PCE (% YoY) Policy rate (FFR - LB)
Source: Fidelity International, October 2023.
etar
noitalfnI
Scenario 2: 20%
Soft landing
probability
A soft-landing scenario would involve a slightly below trend slowdown across major economies, with
no major shocks to knock markets off track. The decision to keep interest rates higher for longer would
bring inflation to a level with which central banks are comfortable. This would then allow them to
pivot and cut interest rates, easing pressure on indebted households and companies.
6%
5%
4%
3%
2%
1%
0%
-3% -2% -1% 0% 1% 2% 3% 4%
Growth
Cyclical recession Soft landing
Balance sheet recession No landing
Note: Inflation rate measured by US Core Personal Consumption Expenditures Price Index. Growth
by US GDP per annum. Source: Fidelity International, October 2023.
Investment implications: A soft landing would ■ A benign backdrop for nominal bonds,
allow investors to lean into risk across many asset European real estate, and consumer-linked
classes, and with inflation returning to target levels companies
there would be particular opportunities for growth
■ Less defensive and mid-cap names likely to
stocks, real estate logistics, and cyclical credits.
outperform the market
Some defensiveness though would still be needed
■ Money market funds would offer interesting
around the coming maturity walls in the fixed
opportunities early in the year
income market, and around the US dollar’s role as
a ‘safe haven’.
14 Investment Outlook Fidelity International

--- PAGE 15 ---
Scenario 1: Scenario 2: Scenario 3: Scenario 4:
Cyclical Soft Balance sheet No
recession landing recession landing
Multi asset There is still some danger in investment grade
credit from the higher-for-longer rates environment
A soft landing would be very much a risk-on
that is likely to remain for at least the first part of
scenario in our view, and good news for equities
2024, and from the maturity walls that we can all
- especially those beyond the big names that
see coming for corporate borrowers over the next
have driven S&P 500 performance in 2023 - and
three years. But, in a situation of continuing - but
moderately positive for bonds. We therefore
not overwhelming - growth, there should be room
favour US mid-caps over mega-cap growth
for both investment grade credit and some careful,
stocks, with the latter already having benefitted
well-researched purchases in high yield assets,
from a ‘flight to quality’ this year as economic
where there are high single digit yields on offer.
uncertainty remained high.
A soft landing would be negative for the US
Maturity walls unlikely to be an issue in 2024 -
dollar because it would reverse the ‘safe-haven’ but will loom over high yield soon
inflows that have boosted it over the past two
$400bn
years, eroding its yield. For a cyclical upswing
we would favour markets like Korea and Taiwan, $300bn
which are exposed to the growth-sensitive
$200bn
semiconductor cycle, and ‘higher beta’ markets
like Brazil. The prospect of interest rate cuts from
$100bn
the US Federal Reserve and a softer dollar could
also encourage a resurgence in high-yielding
$0bn
2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029 2030
emerging markets FX. Elsewhere, we would
USD HY bond maturity wall
regard a soft landing as beneficial for beaten-up
EUR HY bond maturity wall
cyclical names including Asia high yield credit
and more liquid alternatives. Source: Bloomberg, Fidelity International, 31 August 2023.
- Henk-Jan Rikkerink
Global Head of Solutions and Multi Asset
If anything, money market assets and shorter-dated
inflation-linked paper might underperform because
Fixed income
of their relatively short duration, although they could
With nothing to upset the apple cart, this scenario
do well in the early part of the year before capital
should present a benign environment for nominal
gains from government and corporate bonds
bonds. Longer-duration paper would obviously
began to take over and favour those asset classes.
offer the best results thanks to the reduction
US assets would probably do better because
of headline interest rates by the end of the
we should see a sharper fall in yields from what
year. High yield would also do well in a good
is currently a higher starting point than in other
environment for risk assets thanks to a solid
developed markets. European financials might
performance on growth.
15 Investment Outlook Fidelity International

--- PAGE 16 ---
Scenario 1: Scenario 2: Scenario 3: Scenario 4:
Cyclical Soft Balance sheet No
recession landing recession landing
be another interesting play, starting from a Equities
relatively cheap level in what would be a benign
The most important element of a soft landing
environment for fixed income.
scenario is that inflation would return to target
- Steve Ellis
levels, and central banks could declare victory.
Global Chief Investment Officer, Fixed Income
Growth stocks should do well in this scenario
(financials and commodities names in particular)
Private credit
as inflation returns to target levels and central
In a soft landing scenario, we would expect less-
banks pivot. We don’t think value stocks would
defensive names to outperform. It could bring a
have much benefit over growth.
reprieve from defaults and a lower refinancing
Consumption is particularly interesting in a soft
risk for borrowers across the market, and in the
landing. Salaries would have risen with inflation
more economically friendly environment there
but mortgage costs would then begin to fall as
would be a real opportunity in lower rated senior
interest rates came down. That would put more
secured loans or structured credit.
money into householders’ pockets. It would be a
The best returns might be found in assets that
good time to look into retail names.
are currently priced very wide to the market, and
However, a soft landing scenario would still
we would shift our allocation towards names
demand a defensive approach, especially
that could rally where more adverse scenarios
compared to ‘no landing’. We would double down
have not played out. For example, triple-C
on diversification plays that should help protect a
rated names, which typically make up between
portfolio from any macroeconomic shocks, and be
1 and 10 per cent of the European leveraged
even more mindful of high valuations.
loan index, can contribute as much as 25 to 30
per cent of performance at times when market Geographically, we would expect Japanese
expectations shift to a more benign outlook. equities to benefit in this scenario. If central banks
across the rest of the world were cutting rates,
Cyclical names with a higher risk profile are likely
and with real rates coming down quickly, the yen
to give the strongest returns, while in structured
would start to appreciate. Domestic consumer
credit the high-yield tranches should offer the
stocks would do well off the back, while firms
most attractive returns. We would therefore
that rely on exports might face pressure from the
allocate to sub-investment grade structured credit
strong currency.
tranches. In direct lending and senior loans, higher
incomes, falling rates and a more benign default - Ilga Haubelt
Head of Equities, Europe
environment would be constructive for refinancing
- Martin Dropkin
and capital appreciation opportunities.
Head of Equities, Asia Pacific
- Michael Curtis
Head of Private Credit Strategies
16 Investment Outlook Fidelity International

--- PAGE 17 ---
Scenario 1: Scenario 2: Scenario 3: Scenario 4:
Cyclical Soft Balance sheet No
recession landing recession landing
Real estate rents to rise, given the surprisingly low vacancy
rates that remain for warehouses.
With growth returning to major economies and
interest rates coming down to historic levels, this Over recent years there has been a shift in tenants’
would be the perfect opportunity to lean into the focus to the sustainability profile of the buildings
property sector. they rent, and this is only set to continue in any of
the scenarios we might face. Tenants’ interest in
In particular, we would anticipate a stronger
green buildings is not only driven by regulatory
outlook for logistics, given how tightly this market
changes or even by the opportunity to cut energy
is currently supplied in Europe. Because of the
costs, but by their own ambitions towards net zero,
rise of online shopping, logistics is now a better
stakeholder pressures, and their efforts to attract
indicator of consumer health than traditional retail
and retain staff.
real estate and should benefit from increased
- Neil Cable
consumer activity. This sector has had a good run
Head of European Real Estate Investments
recently but there is still room for growth and for
The view on the ground
How our analysts think their sectors would fare in a soft landing scenario
“The healthcare sector’s valuation “I think market expectation is
is highly rate sensitive, and earnings currently somewhere between
are vulnerable to inflation. So, this a soft landing and cyclical recession
is the most positive scenario. I would and therefore a soft landing
expect an increase in absolute will be positively received for
valuations.” cyclical names.”
Healthcare equity analyst Consumer discretionary fixed
Europe income analyst
North America
“Utilities are considered defensive.
A soft landing would be positive for
most industries but only neutral
for utilities.”
Utilities fixed income analyst
North America
17 Investment Outlook Fidelity International

--- PAGE 18 ---
Balance sheet recession: reversal of inflationary trends; sharp pivots from central banks
Risk off... ... as we enter a deep recession
6%
5%
4%
3%
2%
1%
0%
Q4 2023 Q1 2024 Q2 2024 Q3 2024 Q4 2024
Core PCE (% YoY) Policy rate (FFR - LB)
Source: Fidelity International, October 2023.
etar
noitalfnI
Scenario 3: 10%
Balance sheet recession
probability
A balance sheet recession would be marked by a deep and prolonged downturn across
developed and emerging economies. A serious default cycle would take hold across corporate
markets and weaker sovereigns would also come under pressure. Because a balance sheet
recession would prompt widespread cutbacks in corporate and household spending, central
banks would respond by cutting interest rates aggressively, while inflation would also fall sharply.
6%
5%
4%
3%
2%
1%
0%
-3% -2% -1% 0% 1% 2% 3% 4%
Growth
Cyclical recession Soft landing
Balance sheet recession No landing
Note: Inflation rate measured by US Core Personal Consumption Expenditures Price Index. Growth
by US GDP per annum. Source: Fidelity International, October 2023.
Investment implications: The dramatic downturn ■ A risk-off approach would be needed across
of a balance sheet recession would prompt most asset classes
cautiousness across the board, but there would still
■ Focus on duration, defensiveness, and
be opportunities. Fixed-income duration and ‘safe-
sustainable incomes
haven’ currencies would be likely to provide some
■ ‘Safe-haven’ currencies and gold would be
relief, while investments in solid, defensive sectors
interesting
that have long term visibility on income - such as
healthcare and utilities - could remain attractive.
18 Investment Outlook Fidelity International

--- PAGE 19 ---
Multi asset they may even return to quantitative easing. Many
clients have been creeping into those positions this
This is a clear risk-off scenario and one that
year already. Some have been burned for doing
would be bullish for both the US dollar and
so, but in this case it could pay dividends.
Japanese yen (as traditional safe havens), gold,
and also bond duration, given the likelihood ‘Safe-haven’ currencies and gold have
of sharp pivots from key central banks, with performed well in previous risk-off scenarios
outperformance by companies with strong
balance sheets. We would be particularly
concerned about the ability of some small-cap
companies to weather a deep and prolonged
recession, especially those carrying large
debt loads. There would be good reason to
look at US mid-caps and parts of the S&P 500
where valuations have remained reasonable
– but excluding the ‘Magnificent Seven’ stocks
(Alphabet, Amazon, Apple, Meta, Microsoft,
Nvidia, and Tesla). Similarly, we would strongly Note: Gold index is XAU (USD/oz); Yen-Dollar exchange rate (JPY/USD); Swiss Franc-Euro exchange
rate (CHF/EUR). Source: Refinitiv Datastream, Fidelity International, October 2023.
prefer high-quality credit over the riskier segments
of high-yield bonds. We would look for the capital uplift from duration,
Outside the US, more defensive emerging market and would also raise the allocation to cash and
equities in places like India and Southeast Asia buy gold. We would probably want some ‘safe-
look best placed for this scenario, as those haven’ currencies as well. We would go up the
markets are less tied to the global cycle. quality spectrum as high as possible and hedge
against some of the downside that equity holdings
- Henk-Jan Rikkerink
will inevitably deliver. Assuming we had seen off
Global Head of Solutions and Multi Asset
the threat of big supply-side-driven cost increases,
Fixed income there would be no case for inflation-linked paper.
A balance sheet recession always puts fear into - Steve Ellis
Global Chief Investment Officer, Fixed Income
fixed income investors. But it would be risk off for
everyone. Credit and much, if not all, of the equities
Private credit
universe would be knocked off the table - or at
least forced to play second fiddle to bets on falling Given the associated material correction in
interest rates and the need for capital preservation. asset prices and with corporate valuations under
pressure, in a balance sheet recession we would
In a real downturn we always buy duration
favour moving up the capital structure, with a
because we would expect the central banks to
focus on senior secured exposure. Investment
cut rates, potentially hard, with the possibility that
grade tranches of structured credit, specifically
dloG Franc Yen
Scenario 1: Scenario 2: Scenario 3: Scenario 4:
Cyclical Soft Balance sheet No
recession landing recession landing
2400 0.8 72
2000 1.0 84
1600 1.2 96
1200 1.4 108
Yen
800 1.6 120
400 1.8 132
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
19 Investment Outlook Fidelity International

--- PAGE 20 ---
Scenario 1: Scenario 2: Scenario 3: Scenario 4:
Cyclical Soft Balance sheet No
recession landing recession landing
collateralised loan obligations (CLOs), also offer Equities
defensive properties and high excess returns:
Banks and other financials are well placed to
in more than 25 years of the European asset
deal with a standard, cyclical recession, but
class, the market has not seen a single default
they struggle when faced with this more severe
of tranches rated single-A or above (although
scenario. In a balance sheet recession we would
past performance does not guarantee how it
significantly reduce our exposure to financials.
would perform through a new balance-sheet
Some commodities stocks could also come under
recession). The yields on these instruments also
pressure as demand falters.
offer a substantial premium to corporate fixed
This is the scenario to look for somewhere to
income assets.
hide, and utilities and healthcare firms - those
We would also suggest looking at higher-rated
names that act like bond proxies - could be the
senior secured leveraged loans and direct
place to go. The US could also act as a relative
lending where credit valuations should more
safe haven. There would of course be some
than compensate for any potentially adverse
beneficiaries in the falling rate environment, such
default scenarios while also providing high
as those previously expensive growth names
single-digit income and above. We favour
whose discounted cash flows would suddenly
Europe over the US because of the dominance
look more attractive. For example, subscription
of defensive industries, higher expected recovery
model software companies that have strong
rates, and less leveraged capital structures.
recurring revenues would be worth investigating.
As happened during the global financial
It would be important to make any defensive
crisis, expect fewer deals, although any new
moves quickly. No major markets currently reflect
issuance in both direct lending or senior
this scenario in their valuations, so if a balance
secured loans would be likely to have lender-
sheet recession took hold, prices would correct
friendly documentation packages and pricing,
sharply. You would want to keep your powder dry
so there could be attractive opportunities to
when it comes to small-cap companies and wait
place new capital further down the line. It is
to see how the dust settles. Policymakers would
important to note the differences between the
be under enormous pressure to pivot and save
market now and how it was heading into the
the economy. Interest rates would turn sharply,
Global Financial Crisis in 2008. There is far
putting growth stocks back in favour towards the
less leverage in the system today, and with the
end of the year.
growth of private credit, companies have more
- Ilga Haubelt
options to address capital structure issues,
Head of Equities, Europe
meaning that defaults should be contained and
- Martin Dropkin
recoveries respectable.
Head of Equities, Asia Pacific
- Michael Curtis
Head of Private Credit Strategies
20 Investment Outlook Fidelity International

--- PAGE 21 ---
Scenario 1: Scenario 2: Scenario 3: Scenario 4:
Cyclical Soft Balance sheet No
recession landing recession landing
Real estate there was no concept of a green premium, but
that has changed. Now an asset’s sustainability
In a balance sheet recession, any growth in
profile could still drive demand even in a difficult
the market could prove difficult to find and that
recession. This would be down to cost sensitivity
naturally leads to more caution. A lot of investors
- buildings with strong sustainability credentials
would sell out of the sector altogether, but this
are more efficient, drastically reducing tenants’
might be short-sighted. It would be far better to
energy bills. Even in this tightened scenario
concentrate on the core of the market and those
tenants might be happy to pay a rental premium
assets with long leases, collect the income, and
for greener buildings given their overall costs
wait out the storm. The reliable income from
would be cut.
investments such as nursing homes or supermarkets
- Neil Cable
could be particularly attractive in this scenario.
Head of European Real Estate Investments
The last time there was a balance sheet
recession, during the global financial crisis,
The view on the ground
How our analysts think their sectors would fare in a balance sheet recession
“A deep recession would mean “Defensive sectors, such
demand gets hit further which implies as grocers within consumer
inventory correction will take longer staples, would benefit
to finish which in turn implies this from the rotation
downturn gets messier.” away from cyclicals.”
Information technology Consumer staples equity analyst
fixed income analyst North America
North America
“Lower rates are helpful for cash flows for food delivery companies. These are
somewhat of a special case within the consumer discretionary sector given their
immaturity - it’s unclear how their margins will grow as the industry develops, and
in many cases they’re only just about to turn free cash flow positive so their value
is unusually heavily skewed towards a longer-term view. This makes the interest
rate background very important.”
Consumer discretionary equity analyst
Europe
21 Investment Outlook Fidelity International

--- PAGE 22 ---
No landing: higher-for-longer rates with sticky inflation
Rates stay high... ... as growth remains resilient
6%
5%
4%
3%
2%
1%
0%
Q4 2023 Q1 2024 Q2 2024 Q3 2024 Q4 2024
Core PCE (% YoY) Policy rate (FFR - LB)
Source: Fidelity International, October 2023.
etar
noitalfnI
Scenario 4: 10%
No landing
probability
In a no landing scenario, US economic growth would continue to be resilient while Europe’s current
slowdown would reverse. Core inflation would remain sticky and settle one or two percentage
points above central bank targets, encouraging monetary policy makers to keep nudging interest
rates higher.
6%
5%
4%
3%
2%
1%
0%
-3% -2% -1% 0% 1% 2% 3% 4%
Growth
Cyclical recession Soft landing
Balance sheet recession No landing
Note: Inflation rate measured by US Core Personal Consumption Expenditures Price Index. Growth
by US GDP per annum. Source: Fidelity International, October 2023.
Investment implications: A no landing scenario ■ European exporters expected to perform well,
could be more varied than it sounds. With interest with growth accelerating in emerging markets
rates staying high or even rising, floating rate
■ Mid-cap companies likely to outperform the
options across the private credit market would
mega-growth stocks that have dominated
be favoured, while mid-cap companies and
headlines in 2023
commodities would also be of interest. However,
■ Refinancing rates could be challenging for
this scenario would present a challenge to the real
higher-leveraged names across bonds and
estate market, to firms looking to refinance, and to
senior secured loans
government and investment grade bonds.
22 Investment Outlook Fidelity International

--- PAGE 23 ---
Scenario 1: Scenario 2: Scenario 3: Scenario 4:
Cyclical Soft Balance sheet No
recession landing recession landing
Multi asset pressures brought to bear by higher rates and
quantitative tightening. Those of us who have tiptoed
Higher for (even) longer interest rates translate
into longer-duration nominal bonds would suffer.
into bearishness on duration. Our preference
for this scenario would therefore be high-quality Money market funds would benefit as cash rates
credit and cash over government bonds, and rose and in general we would prefer shorter-
for inflation-linked rather than nominal debt as duration, and good-quality, cyclical assets. Note
markets would have to re-price for structurally that not all cyclical assets - low-quality high yield
higher inflation. for example - will feel the positive boost of strong
growth, because lower-quality names will be hurt
In equities, we would favour US mid-caps over
by worse liquidity and higher rates.
the mega-cap growth stocks as we would also
do in a soft landing. Mid-cap valuations look Ever-higher refinancing rates for highly-leveraged
far more reasonable and would be well set companies would present a growing danger,
to benefit from the resilient economic growth generating an environment of heightened
environment that a no landing scenario implies. idiosyncratic risk. Sub-10-year inflation-linked
Outside the US, this higher-for-longer interest bonds could outperform, boosted by upside
rate scenario would also be good news for surprises in inflation, and sheltered by their
interest-rate-sensitive cyclicals like European and relatively short duration and lower beta than
Japanese banks. Other cheap cyclicals such as nominal government bonds. Geographically, the
Chinese equities, Asia high yield, and more liquid US would have better growth and higher inflation
alternative assets would also benefit. and therefore US yields would rise by more than
the European alternatives, making it a yet tougher
If we do see an upturn rather than a downturn
environment there for duration.
from here, then we would also expect more
cyclical emerging markets like Korea and Taiwan
Inflation-linked bonds could continue to
to benefit given their exposure to the growth- outperform in a no landing scenario
sensitive semiconductor cycle. Higher beta and
120
commodity-exporter EM assets, such as Brazilian
equities, should also do well under this scenario. 110
- Henk-Jan Rikkerink
100
Global Head of Solutions and Multi Asset
90
July 2020 July 2021 July 2022 July 2023
Fixed income
1-10 Year US Inflation 1-10 Year US Treasuries
Linked Treasuries
This would be the most dangerous scenario
Source: ICE BofA 1-10 Year US Inflation-Linked Treasury Index, ICE BofA 1-10 Year US Treasury Index,
for government and investment-grade bonds,
Fidelity International, 30 September 2023.
with inflation continuing well above target and
a renewed series of hikes from the US Federal - Steve Ellis
Reserve, as the economy miraculously resists the Global Chief Investment Officer, Fixed Income
23 Investment Outlook Fidelity International

--- PAGE 24 ---
Scenario 1: Scenario 2: Scenario 3: Scenario 4:
Cyclical Soft Balance sheet No
recession landing recession landing
Private credit to benefit. Japan, also sensitive to Chinese
growth, would react positively too and we
Faced with the growing inflationary pressures of
would expect to see growth accelerate across
a no landing scenario, the floating rate nature of
emerging markets, again benefiting exporters.
private credit products would be attractive as a
potential hedge against inflation. In terms of style, we would expect the higher-for-
longer interest rate environment to favour value
In this scenario we could position less
over growth, with earnings steadily improving
defensively and be willing to take on more risk,
during the year. The US economy would be
focusing on industry leaders and companies
resilient in this scenario, with full employment
with strong pricing power and the ability to
and consumers still able to spend. However, it is
pass costs through to customers. However, if
worth bearing in mind that with rates remaining
rates stayed higher for much longer, we would
elevated, this scenario could end up being
look to avoid names with higher debt-to-ebitda
challenging for equities.
leverage or lower interest-coverage ratios and
would be cautious around traditionally defensive Among US equities we would pick companies
sectors, such as healthcare and technology, with two key characteristics. The first is pricing
that often have higher leverage and might not power - companies that have control over their
have the pricing power to pass on higher costs. input and output costs. The second is a well-
Similarly, companies where wages make up a structured balance sheet with limited leverage,
large proportion of costs are likely to be less and companies that can create free cashflows
attractive in a high-inflation scenario, although on an annual basis. Railways, which have fixed
there may be exceptions. assets and in many cases monopoly power,
would be one example that ticks both boxes.
With rates staying high or even rising further,
there would be more erosion of valuations and Commodities, especially oil, would also do
refinancing would become more difficult for well in a no landing scenario, benefiting the
certain credits. While the maturity wall would not UK market with its heavy weighting to those
be an imminent worry, refinancing needs over sectors. By contrast, sticky inflation would be
the next couple of years might start to present a bad news for companies sensitive to input costs
greater challenge. and would see margins come under pressure.
Certain consumer staples companies we favour
- Michael Curtis
in a cyclical recession would suffer from higher
Head of Private Credit Strategies
commodity prices.
Equities
It may be tempting to think that the ‘Magnificent
Assuming that one driver behind a no landing Seven’ big tech companies that have done so
scenario is a strong economic performance well in 2023 would carry on their winning streak
from China, then some exporters in Europe, in a no landing scenario. But it’s all about
particularly Germany, should be in pole position valuation. Some have great business models,
dominance in their sub-sector, and can continue
24 Investment Outlook Fidelity International

--- PAGE 25 ---
Scenario 1: Scenario 2: Scenario 3: Scenario 4:
Cyclical Soft Balance sheet No
recession landing recession landing
to generate free cashflows sustainably. Others From an investment perspective, a no-landing
now have their best years behind them, making outlook would be a time to retreat to core holdings
it difficult to justify higher valuations from here. and wait out the cycle. The fundamentals across
real estate should remain relatively robust, so once
- Ilga Haubelt
this phase is past and rates finally come down, it
Head of Equities, Europe
- Martin Dropkin would be possible to sell and crystalise any gains.
Head of Equities, Asia Pacific There could be opportunities to take advantage
of the repricings taking place in the sector to add
Real estate
value, but broadly we believe this would be a time
Higher for longer rates and surging inflation to remain defensive.
present a challenge to the real estate market.
- Neil Cable
Tenants would face increasing costs, although we Head of European Real Estate Investments
wouldn’t expect them to go bust in large numbers
as buffers have been priced into the market.
The view on the ground
How our analysts think their sectors would fare in a no landing scenario
“Given valuations remain very rate sensitive, “Most utilities benefit from higher inflation
expect higher rates to exert continued protections (particularly regulated utilities)
pressure on valuations - especially if the but continued high inflation will cause capex,
market becomes concerned this is longer- opex, index-linked debt, and interest costs
term. Additionally, continued high inflation to rise which is likely to hurt credit metrics,
would be negative for earnings given limited particularly in light of high investment
pricing power in the sector.” requirements across the sector.”
Healthcare equity analyst Utilities fixed income analyst
Europe Europe
“If inflation continues to remain high, the
deterioration in asset quality is likely to override the
continued benefit of higher rates.”
Financials fixed income analyst
Europe
25 Investment Outlook Fidelity International

--- PAGE 26 ---
Asia
Riding the growth momentum
China’s economic slowdown and the resilience of the US dollar have dimmed the lustre of many
Asian economies’ strong growth momentum in the past year. But heading into 2024, this growth
story should continue.
Martin Dropkin Lei Zhu
Head of Equities, Asia Pacific Head of Asian Fixed Income
The performance of the US dollar and investors’ and monetary support to keep growth on track,
faltering optimism over China’s recovery have including effective measures to address deep,
obscured the strong growth story of many Asian structural problems that help rebalance the
economies in the past year. But Asia’s prospects economy away from the old investment-led model.
still look solid, supported by robust consumption These policy supports would, in turn, help stabilise
and positive structural shifts. real estate, which accounts for around two-thirds of
household wealth in China, delivering a restorative
Three scenarios for China’s growth
boost to consumer confidence.
China is the big variable for the region. We
see three different macro scenarios as the
likeliest pathways for the country’s economy in These policy supports would help
the year ahead. stabilise real estate, which accounts
for around two-thirds of household
The first, our base case, outlines a controlled
wealth in China
stabilisation for China, where its recovery
gradually accelerates as the property sector
stabilises and consumption picks up. We assign
a 65 per cent probability to this scenario in In the event of recession in developed countries,
which the economy grows around 4 to 5 per cent the stronger domestic market in China would
in 2024. Policymakers will provide more fiscal help offset slumping overseas demand. While we
26 Investment Outlook Fidelity International

--- PAGE 27 ---
believe the high growth model in previous years is A second potential pathway for China’s economy
not sustainable, the improving macro environment focuses on the downside risks, such as government
would support corporate earnings and ultimately lift stimulus failing to come through quickly enough,
investor sentiment. For property, we would expect a which could result in a serious slowdown. We
stabilisation of prices, not a resumption of growth, assign a 25 per cent probability to this scenario.
with a close eye on the debt levels. This entails the economy taking a double hit
from both domestic structural challenges and an
The implications for Chinese assets under a
external demand slowdown. Policy support coming
controlled stabilisation scenario are mixed. For
up short would tip the ailing property market into a
Chinese equities, which currently offer attractive
more meaningful decline. In response, credit risk for
valuations compared with most other regions,
local government debt would rise as land sales, a
cyclical stocks like those in the shipping, industrials,
major source of local governments’ fiscal revenue,
and oil services sectors would stand to benefit from
shrink further.
the rising economic output. Stronger household
spending, supported by the large excess savings If the twin crises in the property and local
accumulated during the pandemic, would also government debt sectors were to spill over to the
benefit consumer sector stocks. In this scenario, broader financial system, China could be heading
interest rates would range from stable to a small for ‘Japanification’, or years of economic stagnation
decline. The real yield on China’s government characterised by heavy debt loads, disinflationary
bonds would remain compelling because of the pressures, and a pullback in spending and
low inflation environment, which would support confidence among consumers and businesses.
demand for onshore bonds. Even so, we may see There would still be room for increased leverage at
some short-term liquidity squeezes in the onshore the central government level to offset the downturn,
bond market, driven by investors’ expectations of but for equity investors, a bear-case scenario like
future policy support and an increasing supply of this would call for defensive positioning. Utilities
government bonds driving yields up further. and consumer staples stocks would show more
resilience in weathering the storm. This backdrop
China’s services sector emerges as a bright
could be positive for China’s fixed income assets,
spot as property slumps
and we would be more aggressive on favouring
4 duration. At the same time, rising default risks in
2 such a downturn argue for sticking with high-quality
0 corporate bonds.
-2
-4
-6
June 2022 February 2023 September 2023
Industrial Services Property
Note: Monthly readings of Fidelity International’s proprietary China activity tracker. Y-axis shows the
Z-score of each series. Scores greater than 0 indicate activity above its long-run mean. Scores less
than 0 indicate activity below its long-run mean. Source: Fidelity International, November 2023.
27 Investment Outlook Fidelity International

--- PAGE 28 ---
Our third and final scenario for China involves the Japan
economy entering a strong period of reflation.
China’s trajectory is the biggest swing factor for the
We think it’s the least probable of the three
region, but it’s far from the only economy that will
outcomes with only a 10 per cent probability.
drive Asian markets in the coming year. Japan’s
equities could continue to outperform as the
economy transitions into a mildly inflationary state,
Policymakers would go beyond
following decades of stagnant growth and falling
cyclical easing measures to bail
prices. Wage increases will have a knock-on effect
out both property developers and
of boosting consumption and supporting further
cash-strapped local government
price gains. Japan’s households are starting to
financing vehicles
show a shifting mentality from saving to spending
and this will have broad and lasting effects. At the
same time, corporate governance reforms in Japan
continue to unlock equity market value. Companies
In this case, China reverts to its old economic are focusing more on dividends and buybacks. The
playbook, propping up growth by government Japanese market’s shareholder return profile may
overinvestment and rekindling a property boom. improve faster than most other developed markets.
Policymakers would go beyond cyclical easing As policymakers gain confidence that Japan’s mild
measures to bail out both property developers inflation has reached a sustainable level, it will be
and cash-strapped local government financing only a matter of time before the Bank of Japan
vehicles, fuelling a renewed credit binge in the further unwinds its ultra-loose monetary policy
public and private sectors. Inflation accelerates. and makes a full exit from its policy of yield curve
Business and consumer confidence is resurgent. control. This policy normalisation will help attract
Real estate’s reprise boom drives a broad-based investors to the local bond market.
recovery across the economy. In the short term,
India and Southeast Asia
China would regain its rapid economic growth,
but investors should be wary: this debt-fuelled The rest of the Asian region will face challenges in
expansion would not be sustainable over the the event of recession in the west or of any surprise
long run and would eventually create even worse slowdowns in China, but it also stands to benefit
structural problems in the economy. In terms of from some favourable structural growth tailwinds
asset class implications, the reflation scenario is in the long-term. India is likely to be one of the
positive for economically-sensitive value stocks world’s fastest growing economies over the coming
like the heavy machinery and financial sectors. years. With an expanding working-age population,
We would also favour consumer stocks, especially the country will produce and consume more goods
discretionary names, because of the broad and services and drive technological innovation.
consumption recovery that would likely follow. Indian equities’ relatively high valuations, versus
28 Investment Outlook Fidelity International

--- PAGE 29 ---
other Asian and emerging markets, can be configurations will result in sizeable business
justified by its listed companies’ consistently higher and investment inflows to the rest of the region,
return on equity. helping boost exports and employment in both
India and Southeast Asia. Of course, a recession
Meanwhile, the push to reduce supply chain
in developed markets or a sharper slowdown in
reliance on China through expanding production
China would be a big blow to exporters across the
bases in India and Southeast Asia will support
rest of Asia, but that would only be one factor amid
manufacturing growth momentum across the
a much broader set of considerations, depending
region. Although it’s hard for neighbouring countries
on which of our global macro scenarios plays out in
to replicate China’s manufacturing dominance,
the year ahead.
the rise of so-called ‘China plus one’ supply chain
Growth is expected to stay resilient across emerging Asia
10%
Forecast
8%
6%
4%
2%
0%
2022 2023 2024
China India Indonesia Malaysia
Philippines Thailand World
Note: 2023 and 2024 numbers are the IMF’s projections. Figures are annual real GDP growth rates. Source: IMF’s October World Economic Outlook, Fidelity International, November 2023.
29 Investment Outlook Fidelity International

--- PAGE 30 ---
Sustainability
Regulation and the bond between climate and
nature will drive progress in 2024
The urgency to reach net zero and stop nature loss is leading to increasingly complex markets
in need of more policy direction. In response, asset managers are evolving their engagement
approaches to include regulators, policymakers, and industry groups, alongside corporates.
Jenn-Hui Tan
Global Head of Stewardship and Sustainable Investing
‘System-wide stewardship’, where investors Governments are seeking to close policy gaps to
engage with a broad spectrum of stakeholders make green technologies cheaper while regulators
on sustainability issues, will be a driver of the are working to channel transition financing to
ESG agenda in 2024. The aim is to help create a the right places. System-wide initiatives such
favourable policy and regulatory environment that as the United States’ Inflation Reduction Act
enables and incentivises companies to operate provide support to develop technologies like
more sustainably. We have identified four themes green hydrogen and sustainable aviation fuels.
that underpin our thinking around system-level Political will such as this should help to develop
stewardship: climate change, nature loss, strong decarbonisation pathways for sectors where the
and effective governance, and social disparities. transition is either technologically difficult or too
expensive. In the EU, the introduction of the Carbon
Transition finance needed
Border Adjustment Mechanism is designed to
Climate financing remains a significant challenge create a level playing field between companies
for corporates and financial institutions alike. manufacturing within the bloc and exporters to
Gradually, frameworks are emerging to help it, by ensuring that the carbon price of incoming
companies put in place robust strategies to goods is equivalent to the carbon price of
meet their net zero targets. As more businesses production within the EU.
publish credible transition plans, we expect further But the social ramifications of the transition are also
developments in transition finance, including front of mind. We continue to engage with firms not
innovation in sustainable debt instruments. only on the infrastructure costs of decarbonisation
30 Investment Outlook Fidelity International

--- PAGE 31 ---
but also retraining workers as requirements
change. At government level, policymakers are
looking for ways to protect those least able to bear
the costs from up-front transition commitments as
new technologies are built out. The prize is a clean
energy revolution with lower operating costs and
increased energy security.
Nature in focus
COP15 in 2022 proved to be a turning point in
recognising the impact of nature loss as part
Bioacoustic technology is putting a number on nature loss. Click here or scan the QR code to
of the climate crisis. Healthy carbon sinks and watch the video.
ecosystems play a significant role in achieving Directive (CSRD), a form of data collection that
net zero, while climate change is a direct driver of begins in 2024 for some firms. This is the most
declining biodiversity. comprehensive reporting standard to date. The
The economic implications are clear: it’s CSRD requires companies to report on their
estimated that more than half of global GDP own environmental and social impact as well as
is moderately or highly dependent on nature.1 sustainability-related risks to their business.
The ties between climate and nature are also And there is more: the International Sustainability
becoming more evident in certain industries. Standards Board has published its own version of
Some, like mining, will need to play leading roles sustainability disclosure standards designed to be
in a successful transition. adopted globally and focused initially on climate.
Companies are already considering how to Due diligence of supply chains is also gaining
implement the recently published Taskforce on attention following the EU Deforestation Act and
Nature-Related Financial Disclosures (TNFD). other forthcoming rules aimed at mitigating impacts
Like the Taskforce on Climate-Related Financial on human rights.
Disclosures, the framework is designed to deliver Regulation on this scale sounds daunting, but
a standardised language to report on nature. This sustainability reporting and how it links to financial
is no mean feat. Nature loss is notoriously difficult reporting is an important part of mitigating the risks
to gauge given the absence of a universal of climate change, nature loss, and social issues. It
metric. Innovative technologies, like the nascent should also enable companies to scale up activities
field of bioacoustics, are trying to remedy this by that not only align with the transition but drive
developing alternative measurement systems. change across the global economy.
Elements of the TNFD have already been included
in the EU’s Corporate Sustainability Reporting
1 World Economic Forum (2020) Nature Risk Rising: Why the Crisis Engulfing Nature Matters for Business and the Economy, WEF_New_Nature_Economy_Report_2020.
pdf (weforum.org)
31 Investment Outlook Fidelity International

--- PAGE 32 ---
Important Information
This document is for Investment Professionals only and should not be relied on by private investors.
This document is provided for information purposes only and is intended only for the person or entity to which it is sent. It must not be reproduced or circulated to any other party
without prior permission of Fidelity.
This document does not constitute a distribution, an offer or solicitation to engage the investment management services of Fidelity, or an offer to buy or sell or the solicitation
of any offer to buy or sell any securities in any jurisdiction or country where such distribution or offer is not authorised or would be contrary to local laws or regulations. Fidelity
makes no representations that the contents are appropriate for use in all locations or that the transactions or services discussed are available or appropriate for sale or use in
all jurisdictions or countries or by all investors or counterparties.
This communication is not directed at, and must not be acted on by persons inside the United States and is otherwise only directed at persons residing in jurisdictions where
the relevant funds are authorised for distribution or where no such authorisation is required. In China, Fidelity China refers to FIL Fund Management (China) Company Limited.
Investment involves risks. Business separation mechanism is conducted between Fidelity China and the shareholders. The shareholders do not directly participate in investment
and operation of fund property. Past performance is not a reliable indicator of future results, nor the guarantee for the performance of the portfolio managed by Fidelity China.
All persons and entities accessing the information do so on their own initiative and are responsible for compliance with applicable local laws and regulations and should consult
their professional advisers.
Reference in this document to specific securities should not be interpreted as a recommendation to buy or sell these securities, but is included for the purposes of illustration
only. Investors should also note that the views expressed may no longer be current and may have already been acted upon by Fidelity. The research and analysis used in this
documentation is gathered by Fidelity for its use as an investment manager and may have already been acted upon for its own purposes. This material was created by Fidelity
International.
Past performance is not a reliable indicator of future results.
This document may contain materials from third-parties which are supplied by companies that are not affiliated with any Fidelity entity (Third-Party Content). Fidelity has not been
involved in the preparation, adoption or editing of such third-party materials and does not explicitly or implicitly endorse or approve such content.
Fidelity International refers to the group of companies which form the global investment management organization that provides products and services in designated jurisdictions
outside of North America Fidelity, Fidelity International, the Fidelity International logo and F symbol are trademarks of FIL Limited. Fidelity only offers information on products and
services and does not provide investment advice based on individual circumstances.
Issued in Europe: Issued by FIL Investments International (FCA registered number 122170) a firm authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority, FIL (Luxembourg)
S.A., authorised and supervised by the CSSF (Commission de Surveillance du Secteur Financier) and FIL Investment Switzerland AG. For German wholesale clients issued by
FIL Investment Services GmbH, Kastanienhöhe 1, 61476 Kronberg im Taunus. For German Institutional clients issued by FIL (Luxembourg) S.A., 2a, rue Albert Borschette BP 2174
L-1021 Luxembourg.
Issued in France by FIL Gestion (authorised and supervised by the AMF, Autorité des Marchés Financiers) N°GP03-004, 21 Avenue Kléber, 75016 Paris.
In Hong Kong, this document is issued by FIL Investment Management (Hong Kong) Limited and it has not been reviewed by the Securities and Future Commission. FIL Investment
Management (Singapore) Limited (Co. Reg. No: 199006300E) is the legal representative of Fidelity International in Singapore. FIL Asset Management (Korea) Limited is the legal
representative of Fidelity International in Korea. In Taiwan, Independently operated by FIL Securities (Taiwan ) Limited, 11F, 68 Zhongxiao East Road., Section 5, Xinyi Dist., Taipei
City, Taiwan 11065, R.O.C Customer Service Number: 0800-00-9911#2 .
Brunei, Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines and Thailand: For information purposes only. Neither FIL Limited nor any member within the Fidelity Group is licensed to carry out fund
management activities in Brunei, Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand and Philippines.
Issued in Australia by Fidelity Responsible Entity (Australia) Limited ABN 33 148 059 009, AFSL No. 409340 (“Fidelity Australia”). This material has not been prepared specifically
for Australian investors and may contain information which is not prepared in accordance with Australian law.
ED23-240