SOURCE: fidelity/fidelity_2022_midyear.pdf
PAGES: 24

--- PAGE 1 ---
INVESTMENT OUTLOOK
Fidelity Personal Investing’s market and investment view
In this issue:
April
■ Living with inflation 2022
■ The importance
of diversification
■ All eyes on the Fed
ISAs Pensions Funds Shares Advice

--- PAGE 2 ---
Contents
Outlook at a glance 3
Looking back at the first quarter of 2022 4
Asset classes
Shares 9
Bonds 10
Property 11
Commodities 12
World stock markets
United States 13
United Kingdom 14
Europe 15
Asia and emerging markets 16
Japan 17
In summary
Meet the team 19
Select 50 20
Make smarter investing decisions 23
Important information – Please be aware that past performance is not a reliable indicator
of future returns. The value of investments and the income from them can go down as well as
up, so you may not get back what you invest. When investing in overseas markets, changes
in currency exchange rates may affect the value of your investment. Investments in small and
emerging markets can be more volatile than those in other overseas markets. Reference
to specific securities or funds should not be construed as a recommendation to buy or sell
these securities or funds and is included for the purposes of illustration only. Investors should
also note that the views expressed may no longer be current and may have already been
acted upon by Fidelity. This information is not a personal recommendation for any particular
investment. If you are unsure about the suitability of an investment you should speak to one of
Fidelity’s advisers or an authorised financial adviser of your choice.
2 Investment Outlook – Q2 2022

--- PAGE 3 ---
Outlook at a glance
Current view: Positive Neutral Negative
3 month change (since the previous Investment Outlook): p Upgrade u Unchanged q Downgrade
Asset Current 3 month
classes view change At a glance
There may be no alternative to shares but rising interest rates, persistent
Shares q inflation, slowing growth and ongoing Covid concerns are a headwind.
The conventional wisdom says avoid bonds in inflationary times. But
Bonds p there is a price for everything and yields now better reflect the risks.
Property u Much depends on what kind of inflation we end up with. Property can
hedge rising prices but stagflation is bad news for real estate.
Arguments can be made either way for energy prices. Gold continues to
Commodities q look like a port in the storm. Soft commodities are too unpredictable.
Cash u Cash is always useful in volatile markets and the opportunity cost of
keeping money on the side-lines will fall as interest rates rise.
Current 3 month
Regions view change At a glance
The US is big and self-sufficient, a safe haven from the challenges
US p elsewhere in the world. That justifies Wall Street’s higher valuations.
UK u A rare moment in the sun for the energy and commodity heavy UK market.
Valuations and income are added bonuses for our home market.
A good case could be made for Europe before war arrived. For now,
Europe q the risk of recession and inflation argues for caution.
Asia Pacific China has faced a cocktail of concerns in the past two years but there
ex‑Japan p are signs that it could be turning the corner. A contrarian call.
Japan was looking good until Covid revisited and war in Ukraine
Japan q exposed its vulnerability to rising import costs. Cheap but is that enough?
Investment Outlook – Q2 2022 3

--- PAGE 4 ---
Q1
Looking back at the
first quarter of 2022
The first three months of 2022 were in some While policy and politics have cast a long
ways what we might have expected at the shadow over the first quarter, so too has
start of the year. The Federal Reserve’s the pandemic. Here in the UK, we have
pivot towards monetary tightening had learned to live with an endemic virus. Not so
been well flagged. We knew that the best in the rest of the world, notably in China
of the post-pandemic market rally lay where a zero-Covid strategy is being tested
behind us as recovery shifted towards more by economically damaging lockdowns,
sustainable growth. including in the country’s most important
financial and commercial hub, Shanghai.
What has taken us unawares has been the
speed with which inflation has come to All three issues are inextricably intertwined.
dominate the investment narrative. Prices are Economic sanctions and creaking supply
rising at their fastest pace in 40 years and, chains feed through into rising prices, which
for younger investors at least, this represents in turn leads to policy actions that might
a novel environment. We are having to have seemed implausible only three months
rethink how we allocate our investment ago. Interest rates could rise faster and
assets in this new landscape. further than we expected and stay there for
longer than we hoped.
The return of inflation is in part a
consequence of the quarter’s biggest shock, All of this has naturally been reflected in the
war in Europe. The invasion of Ukraine by performance of the different asset classes
Russia has changed the geo-political picture, and regional stock markets that we track.
perhaps irreversibly. The revival of a Cold As the chart shows, only one asset has
War stand-off between nuclear-armed really enjoyed a good three months. The oil
adversaries, one of which happens to be price has continued to rise, spiking as high
a key supplier of energy to the other, has as $140 a barrel when it became clear
uncertain consequences. that energy would be weaponised by an
unexpectedly united NATO alliance.
4 Investment Outlook – Q2 2022

--- PAGE 5 ---
250
200
150
100
50
0
2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022
S&P 500 FTSE 100 MSCI Europe Japan Nikkei 225
MSCI Emerging Markets Gold US 10yr Treasuries China CSI 300
Oil Copper Real Estate
Source: Refinitiv, total returns in local currency, 31.3.17 to 31.3.22
Past performance is not a reliable indicator of future returns. When investing in
overseas markets, changes in currency exchange rates may affect the value of your
investment. Investments in emerging markets can be more volatile than other more
developed markets. There is a risk that the issuers of bonds may not be able to repay
the money they have borrowed or make interest payments.
For full 5 year figures, see overleaf.
The performance of oil flattens the rest of has a decent weighting towards defensive
the chart but it is clear that most investments areas like pharmaceuticals.
have endured a difficult first quarter.
Gold has had a decent run, living up to its
The ones keeping their heads above water
reputation as a safe haven during times
have done so largely because of their
of uncertainty and when inflation is rising.
exposure to rising energy costs. The UK stock
Industrial metals like copper also continue
market has outperformed other regional
to benefit from a mismatch between strong
equity markets. It is more exposed than most
demand and years of inadequate supply.
to oil and gas and other commodities and
Investment Outlook – Q2 2022 5

--- PAGE 6 ---
One of the most challenging aspects of the multiples have been offset by continuing
past three months has been the increasing growth in earnings, but shares have been
correlation between the performance of swimming against the tide.
shares and bonds. For many years, the two
This has been most obvious in China
have tended to behave differently from each
where an ongoing property crisis, unhelpful
other, offering a smoother ride to investors
regulatory policy in key sectors such as
who wisely balanced their portfolios
technology, and the unresolved Covid
between them. That’s no longer true.
situation have conspired to put the country
Unfortunately, inflation is bad for both shares at the back of the pack once again.
and bonds and fixed income investors have
It’s been a tough three months for investors,
suffered their worst month in many years
but it is important to put the first quarter
even as shares have fallen. Rising interest
in context. The previous seven quarters
rates and high inflation make for a terrible
since the market plunged at the start of
backdrop for bond investors.
the pandemic were more rewarding than
The turn in the interest rate cycle has been any of us would have predicted two years
particularly difficult for the US stock market, ago. Markets do not move in a straight line
dominated as it is by growth shares which and volatility is part of the price we pay
thrive on cheap money. Lower valuation for performance.
6 Investment Outlook – Q2 2022

--- PAGE 7 ---
(as at 31 Mar) 2017-18 2018-19 2019-20 2020-21 2021-22
S&P 500 14.0 9.5 -7.0 56.4 15.7
FTSE 100 0.2 7.7 -18.4 21.9 16.1
MSCI Europe 15.1 -3.1 -15.0 45.7 4.1
Japan Nikkei 225 15.7 0.9 -8.8 56.7 -2.8
MSCI Emerging Markets 25.4 -7.1 -17.4 58.9 -11.1
Gold 5.2 -2.8 22.2 4.4 13.1
US 10yr Treasuries -1.1 5.5 21.5 -8.1 -2.8
China CSI 300 14.8 1.3 -2.9 39.6 -15.0
Oil 31.0 -2.2 -67.0 181.1 69.2
Copper 14.8 -2.9 -23.9 77.9 18.0
S&P Global Real Estate -0.3 13.9 -23.4 36.1 19.0
Source: Refinitiv, total returns in local currency as at 31.3.22
Past performance is not a reliable indicator of future returns. Overseas investments
will be affected by movements in currency exchange rates. Investments in emerging
markets can be more volatile than other more developed markets. There is a risk
that the issuers of bonds may not be able to repay the money they have borrowed
or make interest payments. When interest rates rise, bonds may fall in value. Rising
interest rates may cause the value of your investment to fall.
Acknowledgements – The views in this report are derived from a variety of sources
within and outside Fidelity International. They are based on the house view of the
Fidelity investment team and other sources. However, the report is written for a UK
personal investing audience and the ideas are explicitly linked to the Select 50 list
of our preferred funds. We consider this the best way for our investors to implement
the ideas discussed in this Outlook. We would like to thank, in particular: Wen-Wen
Lindroth, Andrea Ianelli, Jeremy Osborne, Gary Monaghan, Leigh Himsworth, Jeremy
Podger, Ayesha Akbar and Natalie Briggs.
Investment Outlook – Q2 2022 7

--- PAGE 8 ---
Asset classes and
world stock markets
While this quarterly Investment Outlook aims to keep investors abreast of developments
in a range of different asset classes and geographical areas, the events of the past few
years have shown how difficult it can be to predict how these will perform in any given
circumstances. This is particularly relevant today as the investment landscape changes due
to rising inflation and a reversal of the accommodative monetary policy that has prevailed
since the financial crisis. Investors are having to relearn investment lessons from previous
eras. In this evolving environment, the importance of diversification cannot be overstated.
For a video update on each asset class and region, scan the QR code on each article or
visit fidelity.co.uk/investmentoutlook. Before you invest in a fund, please ensure you have
read Doing Business with Fidelity and the Key Information Document (KID).
The risk-return spectrum
Lower risk – lower potential return Higher potential return – Higher risk
Cash funds Bond funds Alternatives Equity funds Individual equities
Managing investment risk is about balancing the chance of loss with the potential for returns
over time. A higher level of investment risk – usually found in individual equities – often
means that the potential for growth is greater, but there’s also a greater possibility that
the value of your investments might fall. At the other end of the spectrum, cash carries little
or no investment risk other than the possibility that inflation will eat into the value of your
savings. Bonds, especially those issued by governments, can be lower in investment risk,
but they’re also likely to deliver lower potential returns. Inflation can also be very damaging
to the value of bonds over time due to their fixed income and fixed return of capital at
maturity. This image shows the level of risk associated with the potential returns of a range
of asset classes. A good way of ensuring your investments have a suitable level of risk is to
diversify your portfolio across this risk-return spectrum.
8 Investment Outlook – Q2 2022

--- PAGE 9 ---
Shares
Current view Neutral full-scale assault on inflation. Expectations for
3 month change q Downgrade the pace and extent of interest rate rises this
year and next have accelerated since the start
Shares have not performed well over the past of the year. The risk is that rates go higher than
three months. But what is perhaps surprising is expected and stay there for longer.
that they have not performed worse. The list of
The third risk for stock markets is the ongoing
things for investors to worry about is long and
Covid situation in China where Beijing is
the resilience of equities in the face of the war
sticking to its zero-tolerance policy, even
in Ukraine, tightening monetary policy and
to the extent of shutting down its principal
continuing Covid fears is remarkable.
financial and commercial hub, Shanghai.
In particular, the V-shaped recovery in stock
The positive case for shares has a few
markets from the initial shock of Russia’s
components. First, there is an element
invasion of Ukraine has been surprising.
of TINA (there is no alternative) at work.
The worst conflict in Europe in nearly 80
Although the income attraction of bonds
years would be bad enough in itself. But the
is improving, dividend yields are still
economic ramifications of this particular war,
competitive and have the potential to grow
thanks to the region’s dependence on Russia
in an inflationary environment. Second,
for energy and many other commodities,
earnings growth is still reasonable, even if
make the rally to pre-war levels a puzzle.
forecasts may well come under pressure as
The war looks certain to reduce growth and costs increase and consumer confidence
increase an already worrying level of inflation. wanes. Third, a great deal of the necessary
Recession in the region is possible. At the very valuation reduction has already taken place.
least we face a return of stagflation. This is Especially outside the US, markets are
not a good environment for stock markets, relatively cheap measured against earnings.
although clearly the further away you move
Shares are a better hedge against inflation
from the region the less its impact will be.
than bonds, but the onus is on investors to
The other key story for equity investors, which seek out companies with pricing power,
pre-dated the war, and would have made balance sheet strength and exposure to
things challenging anyway, is what we are real assets.
calling the ‘return of Volckerism’, the Fed’s
For a brief video update on shares, scan the QR code
or visit fidelity.co.uk/investmentoutlook
Investment Outlook – Q2 2022 9

--- PAGE 10 ---
Bonds
Current view Neutral trajectory is likely to look far too ambitious.
3 month change Upgrade Investors may not need to be concerned
about bond yields rising much further. If their
If I had been writing this Outlook a month capital is safe and they are collecting a 2.5%
ago, I would have stuck to my long-standing yield in the meantime, then the case for bonds
line that bonds should be avoided in an is much stronger.
environment of high inflation and rising interest
When it comes to corporate bonds, the
rates. Inflation eats into the purchasing power
picture is more complicated. Part of the
of both your income and capital return at
calculation with investment grade and high
maturity. You need a high yield to compensate
yield bonds is the health of the economy
for that and moving from a low to a high yield
and the likelihood of defaults by companies.
requires a painful reduction in price.
The same argument that’s a positive for
Today, I’m less militant in my anti-bond position government bonds can be a negative for
because a great deal of the necessary price corporates if investors demand a higher yield
move may have taken place. In the past to compensate them for economic risks.
month, the yield on the 10-year Treasury bond
There is, however, quite a strong case for
has moved from about 1.7% to nearly 2.5%.
international diversification. Year to date,
Shorter-dated bonds have moved even the only government bonds which have
faster – which makes sense because delivered a positive return are Chinese.
they are more influenced by interest rate They have also been a strong performer
expectations. The 2-year bond’s yield is up over one and three years. And the income
by nearly a full percentage point to around paid is higher than on US, European and
2.3%. The difference between the 2 and the Japanese government bonds too.
10-year yields is now negligible, resulting
Important information: There is a risk that
in a so-called flat yield curve, which has
the issuers of bonds may not be able to repay
always been a signal of tough economic
the money they have borrowed or make
times ahead.
interest payments. When interest rates rise,
And that is why it is now possible to make a bonds may fall in value. Rising interest rates
better case for holding bonds than for quite may cause the value of your investment to fall.
some time. If we are heading towards a
recession, then the Fed’s current interest rate
For a brief video update on bonds scan the QR code
or visit fidelity.co.uk/investmentoutlook
10 Investment Outlook – Q2 2022

--- PAGE 11 ---
Property
Current view Neutral impact on direct office and shop demand
3 month change Unchanged but also the viability of ancillary businesses
like restaurants.
In an inflationary environment, real assets
One of the great opportunities in real estate
can help an investor keep up with rising
is investing in so-called alternative sectors,
prices. And there is no more real asset than
things like healthcare facilities and data
a building. The hint is in the name – real
centres. Sustainability is another key focus
estate. One of the reasons that property has
for property investors. Real estate is a key
provided a safe haven in such periods is that
battleground in the fight against climate
index linked leases are expressly designed
change. There is a chronic shortage of
to protect a landlord. Long, inflation-adjusted
genuinely green buildings, an opportunity as
rental agreements are less common than
well as a risk for the industry.
they were, but they are still the norm.
Then, there is the question of how much to
There is a problem, however. Not all inflation
pay for the income stream from a property.
is the same. When prices rise because an
Quality of income matters (good tenants)
economy is booming, real estate benefits.
as well as its duration and growth potential.
Demand for space rises and with it the price
Some of the biggest risks in the sector
that a landlord can demand from potential
include the mispricing of tenant quality and
tenants. When inflation is coupled with
over-optimistic rental growth assumptions,
sluggish growth, however, or indeed is the
particularly in the logistics sector. Rental
cause of the stagnation, it’s a different matter
growth is closely correlated with GDP growth,
altogether. Stagflation is bad for real estate.
so the growing risk of recession is a concern.
So, inflation, and its causes, is one concern
Coping with inflation, changing use patterns
for property investors. Others include the
and the drive to net zero make property
still unresolved disruption to patterns of
investment an increasingly complex matter.
occupation and consumption caused by the
Exposure can be made through a diversified
Covid pandemic. We still do not quite know
fund such as the Select 50’s iShares Global
the extent to which people will go back to
Property Securities Equity Index Fund.
the old working ways. Although the City is
busy Tuesday to Thursday, it is less so at
either end of the week. That has a huge
For a brief video update on property scan the QR code
or visit fidelity.co.uk/investmentoutlook
Investment Outlook – Q2 2022 11

--- PAGE 12 ---
Commodities
Current view Neutral is weaker than the bulls claim, that Shale
3 month change q Downgrade will be quicker to switch back on and that
under-exploited sources of oil such as
Russia is a major player when it comes to Venezuela and Iran could fill the gap too.
a wide range of commodities. Top of the It believes oil could be back in the $60 range
list, of course, are oil and gas but it is also by the end of the year.
a significant exporter of both metals and
So, this may not be the moment to chase
agricultural commodities. The principal
returns. Some exposure via producers (which
economic impact of the war in Ukraine
will be breaking even at a significantly lower
is, therefore, being felt via rising natural
oil price than today’s level above $100 a
resources prices.
barrel) makes sense.
What is unclear is the extent to which price
Investing via the miners rather than the
rises will be a flash in the pan, painful in the
commodity itself also looks like the best
short term but having little long-term impact.
approach when it comes to gold. If you
Obviously, the length of the conflict and the
believe that the gold price will rise further
speed with which more normal relations can
from here then miners, with relatively fixed
be restored in its aftermath will be key.
costs, will benefit proportionately more.
Obviously, no-one knows the answers to We continue to believe that a diversified fund
those questions, which explains the wide such as the Ninety One Global Gold Fund
range of forecast outcomes, particularly with (one of our fund recommendations this year)
regard to the oil price. Parallels with the will do well.
1970s oil shocks may or may not be relevant
A picks and shovels approach to rising food
but are sobering. The oil price quadrupled
prices has merit too. The prices of agricultural
following the Yom Kippur war in 1973 and
commodities are volatile, determined by a
trebled again after the Iranian revolution
range of unpredictable factors including the
in 1979. On that basis, forecasts of $200 a
weather. Better to invest in companies that
barrel of oil do not look fanciful.
will benefit from rising demand for food such
However, there are plenty of voices, such as fertiliser and water-related businesses.
as leading oil price bear Citi, arguing the
opposite case. Citi believes that demand
For a brief video update on commodities, scan the
QR code or visit fidelity.co.uk/investmentoutlook
12 Investment Outlook – Q2 2022

--- PAGE 13 ---
United States
Current view Positive The case for US equities is strong. As long as
3 month change Upgrade inflation is not allowed to spiral out of control,
the evidence is that company revenues
The US is relatively insulated from the effects rise in line with prices and that, far from
of the war in Ukraine. Obviously rising food squeezing margins, inflation can actually
and energy costs will affect consumers boost profitability due to pricing power and
in America just as they do elsewhere, operating leverage. Strength in energy profits
but both represent a lower proportion can anyway offset falls elsewhere.
of US household budgets, so the overall
What about valuations? The US is more
impact is lower.
expensive than most other markets but
The US is also a net exporter of energy using today’s cost of capital to calculate a
and it only imported just over 3% of its oil fair valuation for the market suggests that
needs from Russia last year. The decision US shares are actually better value than at
to ban Russian energy imports was not a previous moments when the headline Price/
difficult one. The US also has a small surplus Earnings (P/E) ratio of S&P 500 was apparently
in agricultural trade. And, with the largest similar. US companies are also better cash
defence industry in the world, it will be a generators than they used to be (due to the
net beneficiary of higher defence spending different sector composition of the market
in any new Cold War. Non-farm payroll today) which might argue for higher valuations.
employment continues to rise and wage
America really is a lucky country. Geography
increases are strong.
and its natural resource abundance have
Put all this together and it is clear why the always protected it and continue to do so.
Fed is more concerned about inflation than The Fed’s dual mandate, targeting both
growth and will most likely not be swayed growth and inflation mean it is always
from its planned tightening programme likely to err on the side of stimulating the
throughout the rest of the year. The only economy. In that environment, shares are
question mark is over how far rates rise and likely to offer investors the best protection.
how long they stay there. Tighter monetary policy creates a headwind,
but the US still looks relatively attractive.
For a brief video update on the United States, scan the
QR code or visit fidelity.co.uk/investmentoutlook
Investment Outlook – Q2 2022 13

--- PAGE 14 ---
United Kingdom
Current view Positive fund manager dealing with inflation. The key
3 month change Unchanged questions you should be asking of your UK
investments include the following:
It’s not often that we can say that the UK
Are there stores of value in the fund, for
stock market has been a port in the storm.
example housebuilders which have built up
Over the past three months, however, our
land banks ahead of the recent inflationary
domestic market has outperformed all its
surge? Does the portfolio have pricing power,
main rivals thanks to its exposure to the few
for example via supermarkets holding the whip
sectors that have benefited from the new
hand over smaller suppliers? How protected
inflationary environment, principally oil and
are the investments against rising input costs,
gas and commodities. In fact, of the regional
for example through holdings in companies
markets that we track, the UK is the only one
which add value through intellectual property
to have kept its head above water in the first
such as media or technology stocks? Are there
quarter of the year.
debts with fixed interest payments that will be
We know that the UK stock market’s inflated away? Is the return on capital high?
performance is only loosely correlated with Does this company operate in a niche area?
that of the UK economy. Only around a
At the moment, recession is not the base
quarter of the revenues of Britain’s leading
case, but the recent Spring Statement pointed
companies come from the home market
to a sharp drop in growth and a sharp rise in
and only half of those listed in the FTSE 250.
inflation. Stagflation is a difficult environment
So, what is happening to the oil price is at
in which to invest. It requires a different
least as important as whether or not there
mindset, more akin to that which protected
will be growth or a recession in the UK this
investors in the 1970s: more real assets,
year or next. The two questions are of course
commodities, gold. But if stagflation is what
linked because, if the economy does go
we face, the UK, on just 14 times earnings
backwards, it will be in large part due to the
and with a dividend yield of around 4%, will
cost of living squeeze that’s a consequence
continue to represent a safe haven compared
of soaring energy prices.
to more growth-oriented markets like the US.
For an investor in the UK market, two key As it has in the past three months, home bias
questions arise. To what extent is your fund may continue to look sensible.
exposed to the UK economy and how is your
For a brief video update on the United Kingdom, scan the
QR code or visit fidelity.co.uk/investmentoutlook
14 Investment Outlook – Q2 2022

--- PAGE 15 ---
Europe
Current view Neutral European Central Bank now looks very likely
3 month change q Downgrade to become even more dovish in its approach.
In combination with any further fiscal support
The war in Ukraine affects European for affected industries, this could position
investment markets for the obvious reason Europe attractively versus other regions.
of proximity but also because of the high
Prior to the war in Ukraine, a strong case
dependence of the region on Russian energy.
for investing in Europe could be made.
Russia accounts for 40% of Europe’s gas
The region offers investors better diversified
needs and the region is clearly vulnerable to
revenues than most markets. As in the UK,
both price and supply shocks.
around three quarters of sales are made
The biggest risk is that Russia actually outside the domestic market. The region is
disrupts supplies to Europe, which would also home to high quality companies that are
have significant knock-on impacts on a leaders in the industries of the future.
wide range of industries for which gas is a
In recent years, sectors with strong structural
key input. Even if it does not (and with gas
growth drivers such as pharmaceuticals,
revenues amounting to perhaps €1bn a day
consumer discretionary, industrials and
there is good reason for it not to) then rising
technology have grown from a 30% share of
prices will exacerbate an already difficult
the market to around 50%. Companies with low
inflation situation and increase the risk of a
volatility, strong balance sheets and attractive
stagflationary growth shock.
dividend streams position the region well.
Recession now looks like a base case for
Whether or not to invest in Europe might
the region within the next year as rising fuel,
seem to hinge on how the situation in Ukraine
food and energy bills weigh on household
evolves but it’s worth remembering that
incomes. Clearly the longer the conflict
markets are quick to price in the range of likely
continues the greater will be the impact on
outcomes. The significant underperformance of
sentiment and risk appetite.
European equities year to date means that the
The role of the ECB has been further valuation case for the region, strong before the
complicated by the war in Ukraine. war, is now even more supportive. The moment
Already far behind the US and UK in terms to reduce exposure to Europe has passed.
of the pivot to tighter monetary policy, the
For a brief video update on Europe, scan the QR code
or visit fidelity.co.uk/investmentoutlook
Investment Outlook – Q2 2022 15

--- PAGE 16 ---
Asia and emerging markets
Current view Positive of Chinese companies listed in America to
3 month change Upgrade stringent US accounting rules. Although many
of the affected companies have dual listings
There is really only one story in this region in New York and Hong Kong, the spat has
at the moment and it is China. The last two affected sentiment.
years have been very disappointing for
A fourth positive surrounds China’s hardline
investors in the country and the year to date
approach to Covid, although the lockdown of
has continued the underperformance.
Shanghai suggests Beijing is not willing just
The list of issues is long but a recent yet to abandon its zero-Covid policy. Learning
intervention by vice premier Liu He suggests to live with the virus would be a major plus for
that on several fronts there is cause for supply chains and trade the world over.
optimism. The first glimmer of hope came
A big unknown remains China’s attitude to
from Liu’s clear suggestion that China is once
Russia’s war in Ukraine. This matters because
again prepared to stimulate the Chinese
China is significantly more integrated with
economy. Perhaps not in the powerful way it
the global economy than Russia, with
did in the wake of the financial crisis but more
six times the contribution to global GDP.
so than during the pandemic. We can expect
Economic sanctions on Russia have been
rate cuts, reduced reserve requirements for
damaging. Similar measures aimed at China
banks and more fiscal stimulus.
would be worse.
The second cause for optimism is an
There is clearly lots still to worry about when
apparent retreat from the regulatory squeeze
it comes to investing in China but if you can
that has accompanied China’s ‘common
look through the headlines and the poor
prosperity’ programme – a set of measures
sentiment, it is possible to see a country that
designed to promote social equality. China’s
is easing policy rather than tightening, that
approach from here is expected to be more
is rowing back on damaging regulation, is
transparent and predictable.
growing its earnings and is cheap against its
Thirdly, there is evidence that both China own history and versus other markets.
and the US are looking for ways to resolve
a long running dispute over the adherence
For a brief video update on Asia and emerging markets, scan
the QR code or visit fidelity.co.uk/investmentoutlook
16 Investment Outlook – Q2 2022

--- PAGE 17 ---
Japan
Current view Neutral higher costs. This represents a big margin
3 month change q Downgrade squeeze for the corporate sector.
The overall inflation figures in Japan are
Towards the end of 2021, things were looking
skewed by a government imposed cut in
up for Japan. The end of Covid restrictions
telecommunications prices. Look through this
in October coincided with an economic
and there is evidence of double-digit price
and earnings recovery. The relatively
increases for gas, electricity, fuel and food.
undemanding valuation of the Japanese
The recent fall in the value of the yen will
market looked at odds with this improving
make imports even costlier. This is having
fundamental backdrop. Then came Omicron
an impact on consumption, which was
and then Ukraine. Obviously neither of
anyway tepid as a consequence of Japan’s
these are unique to Japan but the country
ageing demographics.
is unusually exposed to their consequences,
slowing global trade and rising inflation.
It is a very difficult environment for investors
in Japan, especially for fund managers
The Covid situation hit the country hard in
focused on growth sectors which have
December and January. The latest wave
underperformed value to a massive extent.
of infections was significantly more serious
Selling by foreign investors has been
than earlier ones and led to a quasi state
consistent and the valuation gap between
of emergency being announced in most
Japan and the US has widened even further.
prefectures, which is only now starting to be
Japanese shares are extremely cheap by
lifted alongside relaxed travel restrictions.
historical comparison, even more so than in
There are still no plans to allow overseas
Europe, which obviously is much closer to the
tourists into the country, however.
epicentre of the current geo-political crisis.
The secondary impact of the war in Ukraine
We recommended the Baillie Gifford
has been particularly painful for Japan.
Japanese Fund at the end of last year
The country is dependent on energy imports,
on recovery and valuation grounds. This
with only 12% self-sufficiency, and it imports
is a good fund and will benefit from any
around two thirds of its food. It is therefore
improvement in the investing landscape in
vulnerable to commodity price spikes.
Japan. It has not been a good start to the
The country’s deflationary mindset also
year, but this is not the time to jump ship.
makes it difficult for companies to pass on
For a brief video update on Japan, scan the QR code
or visit fidelity.co.uk/investmentoutlook
Investment Outlook – Q2 2022 17

--- PAGE 18 ---
In summary
Investors may well consider themselves fortunate to have reached the end of the first quarter
of 2022 with their portfolios as intact as they are. Three horsemen of the Apocalypse – War,
Pestilence and the Death of central bank stimulus – have knocked on our door since the last
Outlook. In the circumstances, the markets have held up with remarkable fortitude.
Looking back at our comments three months ago, we expected inflation, interest rates,
earnings and valuations to be investors’ principal concerns in 2022. All of these matter still
but geo-politics and Covid have both re-appeared on our radars too. The outlook is more
complicated than it seemed at the beginning of the year.
In this environment, a well-diversified portfolio will serve investors well. Shares and
commodities are usually the best place to be in an inflationary period. But bonds could be
a good diversifier again and some property, gold and cash would not go amiss either.
18 Investment Outlook – Q2 2022

--- PAGE 19 ---
The Personal Finance and
Markets Content team
Maike Currie Emma‑Lou Montgomery
‘As well as heading up the ‘After some 20 years as
team, I appear on the BBC, a financial journalist,
Sky News and ITV to talk I’m still passionate about
about investing and have showing how easy it is to
a column in the FT. My favourite subject make more of your money, from investing
is investing for income, which I’ve written to the day-to-day stuff. My spare time is
a book on.’ family time.’
Tom Stevenson Ed Monk
‘I’ve been writing about ‘I joined Fidelity in 2016
investing for 30 years. after a career in finance
I provide investment insights, journalism. I believe investing
market commentary and should be simple and I
have a weekly column in the Telegraph. always try to bring my own experience
In my downtime, I love to hit the road on to what I write – including the mistakes
my new Triumph.’ I’ve made.’
Jonathan Wright Becks Nunn
‘I’ve been at Fidelity for over ‘I love creating customer-
20 years. I love creating focused copy that connects
content that brings the world on a really human level.
of investing to life. I make If I’m not writing about
sure that every image and line works as investing, you’ll find me spending time with
hard as it can before publishing it.’ my kids or writing stories for children.’
Find out more about the team at fidelity.co.uk/meet‑the‑team
Investment Outlook – Q2 2022 19

--- PAGE 20 ---
The Select 50: Our experts’ favourite funds
The funds on the Select 50 are hand picked from the range available on our fund
supermarket. For more information on how these funds are selected visit fidelity.co.uk/select.
The Select 50 is not advice or a personal recommendation to buy funds. Equally, if a fund
you own is not on the Select 50 (or was on the previous Select List and isn’t on the Select
50), we’re not recommending you sell it. You must ensure that any fund you choose to invest
in is suitable for your own personal circumstances.
Please be aware that past performance is not a reliable indicator of what might
happen in the future. The value of investments and the income from them can go down
as well as up, so you may not get back what you invest. For funds that invest in overseas
markets, the returns may increase or decrease as a result of currency fluctuations.
Investments in small and emerging markets can be more volatile than other more
developed markets. For funds launched less than five years ago full five-year performance
figures are not available.
Standardised performance data (%) over the past five years
% Morningstar
(as at 31 March) 2017-18 2018-19 2019-20 2020-21 2021-22 Fund Rating
Bonds
ASI Global Inflation-linked Bond 1.1 2.2 3.8 4.6 3.7 JJJ
Colchester Global Bond - - - -2.6 -2.9 -
Fidelity MoneyBuilder Income 1.6 3.0 1.3 8.2 -4.2 JJJ
Fidelity Strategic Bond† 1.7 2.4 0.5 11.0 -4.9 JJJ
Invesco High Yield 8.2 0.6 -10.7 25.7 3.1 JJJJJ
iShares UK Gilts All Stocks Index 0.2 3.8 10.3 -5.7 -5.4 JJJJ
JPM Global High Yield Bond 2.5 4.2 -8.2 22.3 0.1 -
M&G Corporate Bond 2.2 2.9 -0.5 10.9 -4.6 JJJJ
PIMCO GIS Global Bond 2.2 2.3 2.7 5.6 -4.1 JJJJJ
† The investment policy of Fidelity Strategic Bond Fund means it can be more than 35% invested in government and
public securities. These can be issued or guaranteed by other countries and governments. For a full list please refer
to the fund’s prospectus.
20 Investment Outlook – Q2 2022

--- PAGE 21 ---
% Morningstar
(as at 31 March) 2017-18 2018-19 2019-20 2020-21 2021-22 Fund Rating
Alternatives
Aviva Investors Multi-Strategy Target Return -0.7 -1.2 1.1 7.0 4.3 JJJ
Foresight UK Infrastructure Income - 19.7 -1.1 10.8 10.2 JJJ
iShares Global Property Securities Equity Index -7.8 21.9 -19.2 22.2 20.4 JJJ
Ninety One Global Gold -9.8 11.8 13.6 18.4 29.0 JJJJ
North America
Brown Advisory US Sustainable Growth - - - 42.6 18.0 -
JPM US Equity Income -3.5 17.3 -7.2 33.3 20.4 JJJJ
JPM US Select -2.0 17.2 3.3 41.4 23.8 JJJJJ
Majedie US Equity -1.1 15.9 -3.3 50.7 10.9 JJJ
Schroder US Mid Cap -5.2 11.6 -14.8 55.2 7.5 JJJ
Europe
Barings Europe Select 10.5 -0.2 -9.9 46.1 -4.5 JJJ
BlackRock Continental European 7.7 5.6 3.6 47.2 12.5 JJJJJ
Comgest Growth Europe ex UK 4.3 14.6 5.3 28.7 11.1 JJJJJ
Fidelity Funds – European Growth 0.2 7.5 15.5 26.8 2.1 JJ
JOHCM European Select Values -0.5 -1.4 -24.5 46.1 -7.9 JJJ
Robeco QI European Conservative Equities 3.7 4.6 -7.0 17.0 10.2 JJJ
UK
Artemis UK Select 8.5 -4.2 -20.1 72.8 2.1 JJJ
Fidelity Special Situations 4.4 1.2 -27.8 46.7 8.7 JJJ
Fidelity UK Select -0.3 10.8 -17.2 31.9 10.7 JJJJJ
Franklin UK Equity Income 1.4 7.5 -18.1 26.3 14.6 JJJJJ
JOHCM UK Dynamic 4.4 2.1 -27.0 40.8 11.6 JJJ
JOHCM UK Equity Income 7.3 -0.9 -29.5 50.1 11.4 JJJ
Lazard UK Omega 3.6 -0.4 -22.6 38.3 8.2 JJ
Liontrust UK Equity -3.1 2.9 -21.3 33.3 5.6 JJJ
Liontrust UK Growth 2.6 7.2 -14.0 22.6 13.2 JJJJ
Threadneedle UK Mid 250 9.2 -3.8 -18.1 53.3 -7.6 JJJ
The Select 50 is liable to be changed between publication dates for the Investment
Outlook. For the most up‑to‑date list please visit www.fidelity.co.uk/select50
Investment Outlook – Q2 2022 21

--- PAGE 22 ---
% Morningstar
(as at 31 March) 2017-18 2018-19 2019-20 2020-21 2021-22 Fund Rating
Asia and Emerging Markets
Fidelity Funds – Asian Smaller Companies -0.2 5.7 -27.4 58.2 5.6 JJJJ
Fidelity Sustainable Asia Equity 13.6 4.5 -7.8 52.8 -12.4 JJJJJ
JPM Asia Growth 19.3 7.0 -1.3 52.8 -16.2 JJJJJ
Stewart Investors Asia Pacific Leaders 0.3 10.3 -9.3 40.7 4.0 JJJJ
Japan
Baillie Gifford Japanese 15.4 -1.1 -8.7 43.5 -8.5 JJJJ
Lindsell Train Japanese Equity 20.7 0.5 4.5 -0.5 -16.5 JJJ
Man GLG Japan CoreAlpha 1.8 -2.0 -19.2 29.2 8.7 JJ
Global
BNY Mellon Long-Term Global Equity 2.9 20.1 -0.6 28.2 13.0 JJJ
Fidelity Global Dividend -4.5 15.3 1.5 21.4 8.1 JJJJJ
Fidelity Global Special Situations 4.5 6.3 -4.3 45.7 8.0 JJJJ
Invesco Global Equity Income 2.4 3.8 -15.8 40.9 12.2 JJJ
Rathbone Global Opportunities 11.7 13.9 3.6 39.5 9.0 JJJJJ
Before you invest, please ensure you have read Doing Business with Fidelity and the Key
Investor Information Document (KIID) or Fund Specific Information Document (FSI), relevant
to your chosen fund(s). These documents give you all the information you need to know
about Fidelity, including details of the objective, investment policy, risks, charges and past
performance associated with the fund(s). Instructions on how to access these documents
can be found at fidelity.co.uk/importantinformation. If you do not have a computer or
access to the internet please call Fidelity on 0800 41 41 61 to request a printed copy of the
documents. The Full Prospectus is also available on request from Fidelity.
Source: Morningstar from 31.3.17 to 31.3.22. Basis: bid to bid with income reinvested in GBP. Excludes initial charge. The
fund’s primary share class according to the IA is shown. For the latest yields please call 0800 41 41 61 or visit fidelity.co.uk
22 Investment Outlook – Q2 2022

--- PAGE 23 ---
Want to make
even smarter
investing decisions?
If you've enjoyed our fresh take on the
outlook for markets, why not sign up for
our free email newsletters? You can opt
for daily bite-sized updates or a weekly
round-up that'll get you up to speed in
under 15 minutes. You can even sign up
for both, as so many of our subscribers
do. Packed full of the personal finance
and investment topics that matter to
you, you'll soon be making even smarter
investing decisions.
Daily
Every weekday, we’ll email you with the
latest news, views and insights from our
experts.
Weekly
Every Saturday, you'll receive opinions and
analysis from our team, as well as from
Citywire's independent experts.
Sign up today:
fidelity.co.uk/
newsletters
Investment Outlook – Q2 2022 23

--- PAGE 24 ---
Trust us to
go further:
■ Over 390 investment professionals
around the world
■ Fidelity looks after 1.5m UK investors
■ Detailed investment approach
including direct company interviews
For more
Source: Fidelity as at 31.12.21
information
please call
0800 41 41 61
or visit fidelity.co.uk
Issued by Financial Administration Services Limited, authorised
and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority. Fidelity,
Fidelity International, the Fidelity International logo and F
symbol are trademarks of FIL Limited. PSSO0839/0922
PI-GEN-76