SOURCE: jpmorgan_am/jpmorgan_am_2018.pdf
PAGES: 12

--- PAGE 1 ---
MARKET INSIGHTS
The investment outlook for 2018
It ain’t over till the central banks sing December 2017
AUTHOR
IN BRIEF
• The macro environment in 2017 provided fertile government bond yield at 0%. Forget “don’t fight
ground for most asset markets. The recovery the Fed”; it is the BoJ we will be keeping an eye on.
strengthened by sector and geography, and while
• Overall, we are more concerned that this
deflation risks receded, inflation failed to
“Goldilocks” expansion becomes “too hot,” rather
accelerate enough to spoil the party. Central banks
than “too cold,” in 2018. We see little reason to
committed to maintain accommodative policy for
shift out of a portfolio skewed towards risk assets.
the foreseeable future, pleasing equity and bond
Given everything seems expensive, we still prefer
Karen Ward
investors alike. The question on most investors’
Managing Director, equities over credit over government bonds. Cash
minds is: “is this too good to last?”
Chief Market Strategist is expected to produce a negative real return for
for the UK and Europe • We find little cause for imminent concern. The yet another year.
recovery may be “old,” but there is still scope for
• There are still things to be wary of. In particular,
the expansion to broaden both through Europe and
no one knows for sure whether inflation is dead or
the emerging world. If anything, macroeconomic
merely sleeping. Similarly, central banks could get
risks are receding and there is even upside
tetchier about whether they are repeating the
potential if productivity starts to pick up alongside
errors of the 2000s. A punchier uptick in inflation
trade and investment. Even in the US, where the
and/or more hawkish central banks would result in
cycle is more mature, the leading indicators remain
significant market moves. To insure against such
strong and point to robust corporate earnings.
shifts, investors should think not just about the
• While the Federal Reserve (Fed) will continue to diversification, but also the liquidity of their
slowly lift the Fed funds rate higher, longer-term portfolio. It might also be worth building positions
rates are likely to be constrained by ongoing in assets less vulnerable to inflation and higher
accommodative policy at both the European yields, such as financials and value sectors over
Central Bank (ECB) and Bank of Japan (BoJ). Do not growth. After a period of exceptionally low
underestimate the impact of the BoJ’s volatility, a more nimble approach to asset
extraordinary commitment to fix its 10-year management may well be required this year.

--- PAGE 2 ---
THE INVESTMENT OUTLOOK FOR 2018
THE RECOVERY MAY BE OLD, BUT IT STILL HAS LEGS Most European countries are still operating below potential
EXHIBIT 2: GDP OUTPUT GAPS
In 2018, the global expansion will be 10 years old. Even for those
Actual GDP minus potential GDP as a % of potential GDP
investors who have fond memories of the 1990s and 2000s
8
expansions, this one is starting to feel a bit long. GDP growing
6 above potential
However, we believe that with growth broadening by sector and 4
geography, the risks of global recession are in fact receding. Most
2
major nations surpassed the forecasts made for them at the start
0
of the year (Exhibit 1).
-2
In 2017, growth surpassed expectations in most major -4 France
economies Germany
-6 Italy
EXHIBIT 1: GDP GROWTH EXPECTATIONS FOR 2017
Spain GDP growing
% change year on year -8 United States below potential
-10
8
’00 ’02 ’04 ’06 ’08 ’10 ’12 ’14 ’16 ’17
7
Source: IMF World Economic Outlook, J.P. Morgan Asset Management. Data as of
6 2017 growth forecast in Oct ’16 11 December 2017.
2017 growth forecast in Oct ’17
5
On aggregate, the developed world outlook remains robust. Of
4
course, some economies are further along the cycle than others.
3 The eurozone economy, having double-dipped with the sovereign
2 debt crisis in 2012, is at least two years behind the US cycle.
Countries like France, Italy and Spain are still an enormous way off
1
their pre-crisis trend (Exhibit 2). Ultra-loose monetary policy is still
0
United States United Euro area Japan China Brazil Russia filtering through to the lending rates on the high street, which
Kingdom should help activity recover (Exhibit 3).
Source: IMF World Economic Outlook, J.P. Morgan Asset Management. Data as of
The ECB’s monetary efforts are only now reaching borrowers
11 December 2017.
EXHIBIT 3: EUROZONE LENDING CONDITIONS
In the developed world, low unemployment, cheap and abundant % interest
credit, and low inflation continue to support moderate consumer
7 Eurozone loan rate for house purchases
spending. What’s more, companies across a multitude of sectors Eurozone loan rate for non-financial corps
are now more confident about expanding. Based on the latest IMF 6 ECB Main refinance rate
forecasts, business investment in the developed world not only
5
expanded at the fastest pace in 2017, but also that expansion was
synchronised across the G7 for the first time since the Global 4
Financial Crisis.
3
As populist pressures persist in the developed world, governments 2
are feeling under pressure to spend and boost their popularity.
1
Indeed, in recent days, the US administration has made
considerable progress towards its ambitions for tax reform, which 0
should support corporate earnings and the take-home pay of ’03 ’05 ’07 ’09 ’11 ’13 ’15 ’17
lower- and middle-income households. Whether these tax cuts will
Source: European Central Bank, Thomson Reuters Datastream, J.P. Morgan Asset
kick in in 2018 or be delayed until 2019 is yet to be seen. Management. Data as of 11 December 2017.
We are also likely to see incrementally more generous policies Germany, having avoided the accumulation of debt in the 2000
across Europe. As a case in point, the recent UK budget included a upswing, is having a particular moment in the sun. The German IFO
number of additional areas of spending, with the need to balance business survey climbs to new highs practically every month. And
the books falling down the list of political priorities. while the euro has strengthened recently, it is not enough to provide
a major headwind to growth, or corporate earnings, at this stage.
2 IT AIN’T OVER TILL THE CENTRAL BANKS SING

--- PAGE 3 ---
THE INVESTMENT OUTLOOK FOR 2018
EMERGING MARKETS ARE BACK ON TRACK Greater confidence in the outlook for China is supporting
commodity prices. The recent behaviour of Russia and OPEC has
Markets also appear to be marginally more confident in the outlook also served to lift oil prices, which will help the emerging world’s
for China—and rightly so, in our view. During the last few years, commodity exporters. The recovery in global business investment
much has been made of the risks posed by China’s accumulation of will also support demand for the tech exporters in East Asia.
corporate debt. Indeed, some have gone as far as to say Chinese Overall, the outlook for emerging markets is looking stronger than
debt is the next subprime crisis in the making. But it is important it has for a number of years. This, in turn, should support Europe’s
not to analyse China in the same way as a Western economy. China capital goods exporters, such as Germany and the Netherlands.
is a command economy, and the distinction between the
government, banks and corporates is often less clear cut. When the
Chinese authorities want to expand activity, projects are often THERE ARE STILL UPSIDE RISKS: PRODUCTIVITY
conducted by other affiliates, but the final liability still ends with COULD PICK UP
the central government. So when comparing debt in China to other
countries, we should consider the total debt (Exhibit 4) to avoid While many analysts are focused on indicators that will predict the
comparing apples and pears. cycle rolling over, there is one late-cycle upside feature of the
recovery that we have not seen yet—a revival in productivity. The
China will more easily grow out of its debt than the West
absence of productivity growth across much of the developed
EXHIBIT 4: TOTAL DEBT
world has been an ongoing disappointment. Given that stronger
Total debt as % of GDP
productivity essentially enables firms to produce more for less, it is
400 clear why this would provide fuel for roaring markets. It not only
350 helps boost corporate profitability, but also would make central
banks more confident that supply is expanding, and, in turn, more
300
relaxed about incipient inflationary pressures.
250
Why be optimistic about this? First, productivity does tend to
200
take a long time to recover after a financial crisis in which the
150
supply side of the economy gets particularly battered. Second,
100 as already discussed, in 2017 both business investment and world
trade accelerated, which tends to be associated with
50
stronger productivity (Exhibits 5A & 5B).
0
China Italy US Japan
The trade and investment recovery should coincide with
Source: BIS, Thomson Reuters Datastream, J.P. Morgan Asset Management. Data as of better productivity
11 December 2017.
EXHIBIT 5A: GLOBAL EXPORT GROWTH
% change year on year
From an aggregate debt perspective, debt in China is on a par with
25
that of the US and Italy and below that of Japan. Now, remember
that China is still at a very early stage of development. Only 56% of 20
its population lives in urban areas, compared to more than 80% in 15
the US and UK. Its potential growth rate should therefore be 10
considerably higher than the developed world during this period of 5
economic convergence. 0
-5
Put differently, would you lend an equivalent mortgage to a young
-10
graduate with a hot career ahead or someone nearing the end of
-15
their career? It is also worth pointing out that Chinese borrowing is
-20
internally funded by domestic savings and the capital account is
-25
still largely closed; there is no external lender to pull the plug, even
’05 ’06 ’07 ’08 ’09 ’10 ’11 ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 ’16 ’17
if there were doubts about repayment, as there were with
Source: BIS, Thomson Reuters Datastream, J.P. Morgan Asset Management. Data as of
subprime.
11 December 2017.
Rather than imploding, as some warned at the start of the year,
Chinese activity accelerated over the course of the year, so much
so that the Chinese authorities have recently tightened policy,
which should serve to slow growth slightly in 2018, although it
should remain in excess of 6%.
J.P. MORGAN ASSET MANAGEMENT 3

--- PAGE 4 ---
THE INVESTMENT OUTLOOK FOR 2018
EXHIBIT 5B: DEVELOPED ECONOMIES INVESTMENT This seems the most likely scenario, particularly given the recent
% of developed economies’ GDP conclusion of phase one of the negotiations, which settled the exit
26 bill, citizens’ rights and the Northern Ireland border. Both sides
Developed country investment
Investment forecast have approached the negotiations recently in a constructive
25
manner. It appears the EU is more confident following the political
24 results in 2017 and see that alongside the eurozone recovery,
support for the euro is rising. It may feel less inclined to make an
23
example of the UK with a particularly punitive deal and instead
22 wish to avoid near-term supply chain dislocations that could result
from a “no deal” scenario.
21
That is not to say the discussions will not remain tense. But the EU
20
has been in some sort of apparent crisis for six years, and we
19 should remember what we learned during that time about EU
’90 ’94 ’98 ’02 ’06 ’10 ’14 ’18 ’22
political strategy. There was political blustering and brinkmanship.
Source: IMF World Economic Outlook, J.P. Morgan Asset Management. Data as of There were numerous column inches dedicated to impending
11 December 2017. doom. But at the end of the day, economics overruled the politics
and solutions were found. The solutions were neither perfect nor
definitive; indeed, they often deferred the difficult decisions to
POLITICAL RISKS ARE LESS TROUBLING THAN
further down the road. But ultimately, a way was found to
LAST YEAR
“muddle through.”
This time last year populism threatened the overhaul of the Despite all the noise, the negotiations may just continue in the
political status quo in a number of countries. The final ballot results background for a long time. In which case, Brexit fatigue may set in
turned out to be much less troubling. There are still hurdles ahead, among investors, with more emphasis placed on the day-to-day
though we do not expect any of them to dominate markets in the data. If sterling were to hold on to its recent appreciation, then the
way of those in 2017. squeeze on real wages, which depressed consumption in 2017, may
ease significantly (Exhbit 6). If business investment is not entirely
At the time of writing, Germany’s Chancellor Merkel is still trying to
paralysed, then alongside less restrictive fiscal policy, an ongoing
form a coalition government. The only viable option ahead is a
modest recovery seems feasible.
Grand Coalition, aligning her Christian Democrat (CDU) party to the
Social Democrats (SPD). The SPD is likely to demand reform in the If sterling holds on to its recent gains, the pressure on UK
health insurance system, an increase in part-time workers rights real wages will ease
and more fiscal spending for such a partnership. The market would EXHIBIT 6: UK REAL WAGE GROWTH
most likely welcome such a shift in fiscal policy. If, however, talks % change year on year
fail and Merkel is deterred by the legislative challenges of a
minority government aligned with the Greens, then new elections 6
look possible in April 2018. This would leave a vacuum at the top of
the eurozone leadership until at least the summer of next year.
3
The Italian elections, which must be held by May, have the potential
to create more volatility given support for the anti-establishment 0
parties remains strong. However, we choose to be guided by the
experience of 2017 where, at the ballot, voters were persuaded by Nominal wage growth*
-3 CPI
the economic recovery to stick with the mainstream parties. The Real wage growth
key risk for Italy is a fragmented result, which would reduce the
chance of major reform. But this is an old story for Italy, with -6
’02 ’04 ’06 ’08 ’10 ’12 ’14 ’16
potentially limited concern for markets.
Source: Bloomberg, ONS, J.P. Morgan Asset Management. *Nominal wages include
The Brexit negotiations may also be reaching a more critical phase. bonuses. Data as of 11 December 2017.
Following the triggering of Article 50 in March 2017, we are now
nine months into the two-year official deadline to complete the exit
process. The pressure to proceed on this timeline may diminish,
however, if both sides agree to a transition arrangement.
4 IT AIN’T OVER TILL THE CENTRAL BANKS SING

--- PAGE 5 ---
THE INVESTMENT OUTLOOK FOR 2018
SO WHERE IS INFLATION? By contrast, underlying inflation in Europe is likely to remain
subdued, which will support corporate earnings and encourage
As economic activity marches on, the slack in the economy loose monetary policy for at least the next couple of years. Not
continues to be eroded. Unemployment is at a 17-year low in the only is measured unemployment still above pre-crisis levels in most
US, and multi decade lows in the UK, Germany and Japan. One countries, these unemployment rates underestimate the amount of
might have expected workers in these economies to feel slack in the economy. Participation rates in most European
emboldened enough to ask for more pay. And yet inflation in the countries are still very low (Exhibit 8). As the labour market
labour and goods markets is nowhere to be seen (Exhibit 7). tightens, more people are likely to be tempted into employment,
particularly if structural reform reduces the generosity of social
Despite strong growth, core inflation remains moderate
safety nets and the prospects for early retirement. The assumption
EXHIBIT 7: CORE INFLATION
most people make—that the demographics will serve as a drag on
% change year on year
activity in the eurozone—may thus turn out to be completely wrong.
4
US
Eurozone There is a lot of hidden slack in the European labour market
3 Japan
EXHIBIT 8: PARTICIPATION RATE
% of population
2
65 25
Participation rate for over 15s (LHS)
1 Participation rate for over 65s (RHS)
60 20
0
55 15
-1
-2 50 10
’00 ’02 ’04 ’06 ’08 ’10 ’12 ’14 ’16
Source: BLS, Eurostat, Japan Ministry of Internal Affairs & Communications, Thomson 45 5
Reuters Dataream, J.P. Morgan Asset Management. Data as of 11 December 2017.
The core of all economic theory is that more demand relative to 40 0
US Germany Spain France Italy
supply creates higher prices. Without this basic foundation, we
economists are truly lost at sea! Central banks are puzzling over a Source: OECD, J.P. Morgan Asset Management. Data as of 11 December 2017.
number of theories: maybe there is hidden slack in the economy?
Maybe globalisation or technological change is keeping prices low?
NEVER MIND THE FED; IT’S THE BOJ YOU NEED
Or maybe, after such a long recession, people have forgotten to ask
for more pay each year and inflation has got stuck in the process? TO WATCH
The truth is probably some combination of these factors. We do As central banks toy with the candidate explanations for low
think that globalisation has had a significant structural impact. inflation, they are in no hurry to normalise monetary policy.
Outsourcing—or the threat of it—has reduced the bargaining power
This might seem contrary given the Fed is raising rates and 2018
of developed world workers. When China joined the WTO in 2001,
will be the first year it starts to reduce its balance sheet, but the
global labour supply effectively doubled. China’s capacity is not yet
current plan to withdraw stimulus is extremely gradual. By the end
absorbed, not to mention the potential inclusion of large
of the year, Fed funds is expected to be 100bps from where it is
population countries in Africa and East Asia such as Bangladesh
today, but that will still leave it roughly 400bps below the
and Nigeria. Given exchange rates are not freely adjusting to
pre-crisis peak.
absorb the differential in labour costs, the downward impact of
globalisation on developed world inflation still has further to run.
Moreover, we stress it is really important not to just focus on the
Fed, but to instead consider the combined monetary behaviour of
At the same time, there are more temporary factors that have
the Fed, the ECB, the Bank of England and, in particular, the Bank
most likely played a role in lowering US inflation, such as the low
of Japan (Exhibit 9A).
oil price and strength of the dollar through 2015. “Hidden
unemployment”—the workers that temporarily left the labour
market in the depths of the recession—also served to muddy the
relationship between headline unemployment and wage growth. As
these influences diminish, some pick-up in US inflation seems likely
over the course of the year.
J.P. MORGAN ASSET MANAGEMENT 5

--- PAGE 6 ---
THE INVESTMENT OUTLOOK FOR 2018
Combining the “big 4” central banks, balance sheets are still HAS THE BOND CURVE LOST ITS POWER
expanding through 2018
TO PREDICT?
EXHIBIT 9A: CENTRAL BANK BALANCE SHEETS
USD billions Before thinking about what all this means for portfolios, it is worth
16,000 Forecast* dwelling on one further issue with regard to the government
14,000 UK bond curve.
Japan
12,000
Eurozone
10,000 US With longer-term rates remaining low—and Fed funds rising—the US
8,000 curve is beginning to flatten. This is starting to cause concern
6,000 amongst investors who have relied on a flattening and then an
4,000 inverting bond curve to predict a downturn in stock prices.
2,000
0 Pre-quantitative easing this was a perfectly logical argument to
’07 ’08 ’09 ’10 ’11 ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 ’16 ’17 ’18 ’19
follow. When long-term rates were anchored at a rate that was
Source: Bank of England (BoE), Bank of Japan (BoJ), European Central Bank (ECB), US
broadly consistent with neutral policy (plus a term premium), if the
Federal Reserve (Fed), Thomson Reuters Datastream, J.P. Morgan Asset Management.
*Balance sheet forecast assumptions: BoE to have zero net purchases until the end of curve flattened it meant policy was no longer stimulative. When the
’19; BoJ to have an ann. pace of 60tn yen until the end of ’17, then a reduction in the
curve inverted, it meant central banks put the brakes on: time to
ann. monthly purchase rate by 10tn yen each quarter until Oct ’18, when purchases
continue at an ann. monthly pace of 20tn yen; ECB to keep purchases at EUR 60bn per expect a slowdown, if not a recession.
month from Nov ’17 to Dec ’17 and then reduce monthly purchases to EUR 30bn in Jan
’18, then to EUR 15bn in Oct ’18 and to zero asset purchases in Apr ’19; Fed forecast is If, however, long-term rates are anchored by QE, or even influenced
based on a monthly reduction of USD 10bn, starting in Oct ’17 and then stepping up the
monthly reduction by a further USD 10bn in each subsequent quarter until reaching a significantly by nominal demand in a completely different region,
maximum of USD 50bn reduction per month, depending on the monthly maturity then this argument could break down entirely. The curve could
schedule of the balance sheet. Data as of 11 December 2017.
invert with rates still at an accommodative rate relative to economic
EXHIBIT 9B: MARKET EXPECTATIONS FOR POLICY RATES
fundamentals across maturities. QE has left us in unprecedented
%
times, and we cannot be sure that the yield curve will prove to be
2.0
the reliable recession indicator that it has in the past.
1.6 US
UK
1.2 Japan Japan is a case in point. The Japanese yield curve is now almost
Eurozone
0.8 pancake flat. That has not served to depress lending, activity or the
0.4 equity market.
0.0
-0.4 IMPLICATIONS FOR MARKETS
-0.8
Dec ’17 Dec ’18 Dec ’19
Putting all this together, we see no definitive reason to begin
Source: Bloomberg, J.P. Morgan Asset Management. Expectations calculated using OIS shying away from risk assets, certainly not towards government
forwards. Data as of 11 December 2017.
bonds, or cash, which is likely to have a negative real return for the
The ECB may have announced plans to start reducing its purchases, ninth year in a row. And as a Global Market Strategist from our
but it is still planning on adding to its balance sheet through 2018. team in Asia recently phrased it, we have to remember we are
Moreover, it has promised not to raise rates before it has officially shopping in an expensive mall. After all, we do not have the option
stopped its quantitative easing (QE) programme. Based on its of switching to another asset class that is obviously cheap.
current timetable, that would point to the first rate rise in 2019.
The macro fundamentals are the main underpinnings to this view.
The BoJ has never really managed to step meaningfully away from Even in the US where the economic cycle is more advanced, the
the zero interest bound after its recession in the early 1990s. In its lead indicators do not suggest that the economic cycle is about to
latest effort to stimulate inflation, the BoJ committed to hold the turn. Consumer confidence, employment and business sentiment all
government’s 10-year government bond yield at 0%—whatever the
remain robust. And if global productivity begins to rebound
cost to its balance sheet. If expectations of nominal growth rise in
alongside world trade and investment, this would fuel the idea that
Japan and people want to sell Japanese bonds, the BoJ’s purchases
the economy can continue to expand without inflationary—or
force investors to search for yield in other markets. In turn, this
monetary policy—consequences.
supports longer-term government bond prices globally and
depresses global fixed income yields. And whilst equity price/earnings (P/E) ratios have risen above
historical norms, they do not appear overly stretched, particularly
When you combine the commitments made by the major central
in Europe (Exhibit 10A). Nor do analysts’ earnings expectations for
banks, policy is expected to remain extraordinarily accommodative
either the US or Europe look particularly overoptimistic or out of
(Exhibits 9A & 9B). Assuming central banks honour the guidance
kilter with fundamentals.
they have given, our base-case scenario is for longer-term yields to
grind slightly higher, but to remain very low on a historical basis.
6 IT AIN’T OVER TILL THE CENTRAL BANKS SING

--- PAGE 7 ---
THE INVESTMENT OUTLOOK FOR 2018
Valuations are not overly stretched in equities
EXHIBIT 10A: GLOBAL EQUITY VALUATIONS
40x 5.2x
4.8x
35x 4.4x
30x 4.0x
3.6x
25x 3.2x
2.8x
20x
2.4x
15x 2.0x
1.6x
10x 1.2x
0.8x
5x
0.4x
0x 0.0x
US Europe ex-UK UK Japan EM
J.P. MORGAN ASSET MANAGEMENT 7
sgninrae-ot-ecirP Price-to-book
RISKS TO MONITOR
While this all sounds wonderfully benign, we should be prepared to
Current be nimble in 2018. Bear in mind that as 2017 draws to a close, two
25-year range mammoth questions remain unanswered: is inflation really dead?
25-year average
And will central banks change their minds about how gradually
stimulus should be removed?
Unemployment is creeping ever lower, and oil prices were up 15%
18.4
year to date at the time of writing. This could lead to a more
15.3 14.3 14.5 1.8
significant pick-up in inflation.
Remember that bond investors are not being compensated for
inflation risk in the way that they were pre-crisis, as investors
remain primarily concerned about the downside risks: debt,
deflation and unconventional policy forcing yields lower (Exhibit 11).
Source: MSCI, Standard & Poor’s, Thomson Reuters Datastream, J.P. Morgan Asset
Management. Valuations refer to NTMA P/E for Europe ex-UK, US, Japan, UK and P/B If this balance of risks were to change, the impact on global
for emerging markets. Valuation and earnings charts use MSCI indices for all regions/ longer-term yields could catch us out.
countries, except for the US, which is the S&P 500. Data as of 11 December 2017.
Bond investors are not being compensated for inflation risk
EXHIBIT 10B: FIXED INCOME YIELDS
% yield EXHIBIT 11: US 10-YEAR TREASURY TERM PREMIUM
%
25
Current 5
10-year range
20 10-year average
4
15
3
10
2
7.1
6.2
5 5.6 1
3.3 3.1
2.2
0 0.5 0.7 0
Euro Gov. US Euro IG US IG Euro HY US HY EM EM local
Treasury sovereign
(USD)
-1
’88 ’90 ’92 ’94 ’96 ’98 ’00 ’02 ’04 ’06 ’08 ’10 ’12 ’14 ’16
Source: Bloomerg Barclays, BofA/Merrill Lynch, FactSet, J.P. Morgan Economic
Research, J.P. Morgan Asset Management. Yields are yield to maturity. Euro Gov.: Source: Bloomberg, J.P. Morgan Asset Management. Adrian Crump & Moench measure
Bloomberg Barclays Euro Agg. Government; US Treasury: Bloomberg Barclays US Agg. of the US 10-year treasury term premium. Data as of 11 December 2017.
Gov. – Treasury; Euro IG: Bloomberg Barclays Euro Agg. – Credit – Corporate; US IG:
Bloomberg Barclays US Agg. Corporate – Investment Grade; Euro HY: BofA/Merrill
We should therefore continue to monitor all inflationary pressures
Lynch Euro Non-Financial; US HY: BofA/Merrill Lynch US High Yield Constrained; EM
sovereign (USD): J.P. Morgan EMBI+ index; EM local: J.P. Morgan GBI-EM index. Data as very carefully, including oil prices, wages and core inflation. And
of 11 December 2017.
keep an eye on nominal growth and the wage rounds in Japan,
even if Japanese assets are not directly in your portfolio. In our
It is also worth remembering that even in the equity markets that
view, the BoJ is having more of an influence on global bond yields
do appear a little more stretched, this has not been due to equal
than people are giving it credit for.
gains across the board. The tech sector has done a lot of the heavy
lifting in taking the aggregate price index higher.
We will also be poring over the central banks’ communications.
Whilst central bank policies have not yet delivered too much goods
Within equity markets, we are more inclined towards Japanese and
inflation, they have certainly boosted asset prices. High-profile
continental European stocks.
institutions, like the Bank for International Settlements, are
Even if we are wrong on the fundamentals, we also remain mindful becoming increasingly vocal in warning about the risks of such
of the fact that we often have more time to shift position than we loose policy on longer-term financial stability. One only has to
think. De-risking too early can be more costly than being a little too consider the 1,700% rise in the price of Bitcoin over the past year
late when we consider that the final 12 months of past US equity to wonder if they have a point. Central banks are walking the fine
rallies have delivered average returns of 25% vs. drawdowns of balance between a need to stimulate activity and meet their
14% in the first six months of things turning sour. inflation targets and not making all the mistakes of the 2000s boom.

--- PAGE 8 ---
THE INVESTMENT OUTLOOK FOR 2018
These are the key risks we will be monitoring, on top of well-known
concerns such as the potential for conflict with North Korea.
While these risks might have a relatively low probability, the market
impact could be significant. And so on top of a well-diversified
strategy, investors should think about the liquidity of their
portfolio: if the tide changes, you will want to be able to shift
position quickly. And there are certain trades that will work better
in an environment of rising inflation and bond yields. The most
obvious would be financials stocks and value stocks over growth.
Building towards such a portfolio, one can maintain exposure to
the upside as the good times continue to roll, while providing some
peace of mind if the story changes.
The Market Insights team looks forward to working with you
towards a prosperous 2018.
8 IT AIN’T OVER TILL THE CENTRAL BANKS SING

--- PAGE 9 ---
THE INVESTMENT OUTLOOK FOR 2018
GLOBAL MARKET INSIGHTS STRATEGY TEAM
Americas Europe Asia
Dr. David P. Kelly, CFA Karen J. Ward Tai Hui
Managing Director Managing Director Managing Director
Chief Global Strategist Chief Market Strategist, UK & Europe Chief Market Strategist, Asia
New York London Hong Kong
Julio C. Callegari Manuel Arroyo Ozores, CFA Kerry Craig, CFA
Executive Director Executive Director Executive Director
Global Market Strategist Global Market Strategist Global Market Strategist
São Paulo Madrid Melbourne
Samantha M. Azzarello Tilmann Galler, CFA Yoshinori Shigemi
Vice President Executive Director Executive Director
Global Market Strategist Global Market Strategist Global Market Strategist
New York Frankfurt Tokyo
David M. Lebovitz Lucia Gutierrez Mellado Marcella Chow
Vice President Executive Director Vice President
Global Market Strategist Global Market Strategist Global Market Strategist
New York Madrid Hong Kong
Gabriela D. Santos Vincent Juvyns Dr. Jasslyn Yeo, CFA
Vice President Executive Director Vice President
Global Market Strategist Global Market Strategist Global Market Strategist
New York Luxembourg Singapore
Alexander W. Dryden, CFA Maria Paola Toschi Chaoping Zhu, CFA
Associate Executive Director Vice President
Global Market Strategist Global Market Strategist Global Market Strategist
New York Milan Shanghai
John C. Manley Michael J. Bell, CFA Hannah J. Anderson
Associate Vice President Associate
Market Analyst Global Market Strategist Global Market Strategist
New York London Hong Kong
Abigail B. Yoder, CFA Nandini L. Ramakrishnan Ian Hui
Associate Associate Associate
Market Analyst Global Market Strategist Global Market Strategist
New York London Hong Kong
Jordan K. Jackson Jai Malhi Shogo Maekawa
Analyst Associate Associate
Market Analyst Market Analyst Global Market Strategist
New York London Tokyo
Tyler J. Voigt Ambrose Crofton
Analyst Market Analyst
Market Analyst London
New York
J.P. MORGAN ASSET MANAGEMENT 9

--- PAGE 10 ---
THE INVESTMENT OUTLOOK FOR 2018
10 IT AIN’T OVER TILL THE CENTRAL BANKS SING

--- PAGE 11 ---
THE INVESTMENT OUTLOOK FOR 2018
J.P. MORGAN ASSET MANAGEMENT 11

--- PAGE 12 ---
The Market Insights programme provides comprehensive data and commentary on global markets without reference to products. Designed as a tool to help clients understand the
markets and support investment decision-making, the programme explores the implications of current economic data and changing market conditions.
This document is a general communication being provided for informational purposes only. It is educational in nature and not designed to be taken as advice or a recommendation
for any specific investment product, strategy, plan feature or other purpose in any jurisdiction, nor is it a commitment from J.P. Morgan Asset Management or any of its subsidiaries
to participate in any of the transactions mentioned herein. Any examples used are generic, hypothetical and for illustration purposes only. This material does not contain sufficient
information to support an investment decision and it should not be relied upon by you in evaluating the merits of investing in any securities or products. In addition, users should make
an independent assessment of the legal, regulatory, tax, credit and accounting implications and determine, together with their own professional advisers, if any investment mentioned
herein is believed to be suitable to their personal goals. Investors should ensure that they obtain all available relevant information before making any investment. Any forecasts, figures,
opinions or investment techniques and strategies set out are for information purposes only, based on certain assumptions and current market conditions and are subject to change
without prior notice. All information presented herein is considered to be accurate at the time of production, but no warranty of accuracy is given and no liability in respect of any error
or omission is accepted. It should be noted that investment involves risks, the value of investments and the income from them may fluctuate in accordance with market conditions and
taxation agreements and investors may not get back the full amount invested. Both past performance and yields are not reliable indicators of current and future results.
J.P. Morgan Asset Management is the brand for the asset management business of JPMorgan Chase & Co. and its affiliates worldwide. This communication is issued by the following
entities: in the United Kingdom by JPMorgan Asset Management (UK) Limited, which is authorized and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority; in other European jurisdictions by
JPMorgan Asset Management (Europe) S.à r.l.; in Hong Kong by JF Asset Management Limited, or JPMorgan Funds (Asia) Limited, or JPMorgan Asset Management Real Assets (Asia)
Limited; in Singapore by JPMorgan Asset Management (Singapore) Limited (Co. Reg. No. 197601586K), or JPMorgan Asset Management Real Assets (Singapore) Pte Ltd (Co. Reg. No.
201120355E); in Taiwan by JPMorgan Asset Management (Taiwan) Limited; in Japan by JPMorgan Asset Management (Japan) Limited which is a member of the Investment Trusts
Association, Japan, the Japan Investment Advisers Association, Type II Financial Instruments Firms Association and the Japan Securities Dealers Association and is regulated by the
Financial Services Agency (registration number “Kanto Local Finance Bureau (Financial Instruments Firm) No. 330”); in Korea by JPMorgan Asset Management (Korea) Company Limited;
in Australia to wholesale clients only as defined in section 761A and 761G of the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth) by JPMorgan Asset Management (Australia) Limited (ABN 55143832080)
(AFSL 376919); in Brazil by Banco J.P. Morgan S.A.; in Canada for institutional clients’ use only by JPMorgan Asset Management (Canada) Inc., and in the United States by JPMorgan
Distribution Services Inc. and J.P. Morgan Institutional Investments, Inc., both members of FINRA/SIPC.; and J.P. Morgan Investment Management Inc.
In APAC, distribution is for Hong Kong, Taiwan, Japan and Singapore. For all other countries in APAC, to intended recipients only.
Copyright 2017 JPMorgan Chase & Co. All rights reserved.
0903c02a81ffe237
LV–JPM50727 | 12/17