SOURCE: jpmorgan_am/jpmorgan_am_2021.pdf
PAGES: 13

--- PAGE 1 ---
MARKET INSIGHTS
Investment Outlook 2021
Bridge over troubled waters UK | December 2020
Post-Covid
Pre-Covid
AUTHORS
IN BRIEF
• Government and central bank support • Momentum to tackle climate change looks set
appears to have carried economies through to increase in the year ahead. Governments
the worst of the Covid-19 crisis, and the are likely to use regulatory levers to put the
vaccine provides hope that an end is in sight onus on private capital.
which should give policymakers the
Karen Ward • Extremely low government bond yields mean
Chief Market Strategist confidence to do more in the coming months. it’s time to rethink the 60:40 approach to
for EMEA
• The extraordinary debt burden for companies portfolio construction. Credit, real estate,
and governments coming out of the pandemic infrastructure and macro funds could help
is likely to result in an extended period of low provide income and diversification.
interest rates and continued central bank
• Our central case for 2021 is a vaccine rollout
asset purchases.
in the first half of the year, followed by a
• In any rotation from winners to losers in robust recovery in the second half. However,
Mike Bell markets, it will be important to discriminate there are risks to both sides of this scenario
Global Market Strategist
between cyclical and secular headwinds and and investors should be particularly vigilant
tailwinds. of the risk of a return of inflation.
• After a decade of US market dominance,
it could be Asia’s turn to shine. Not only has
the region been more successful in containing
the pandemic, but structural growth prospects
are also in its favour.
Hugh Gimber
Global Market Strategist

--- PAGE 2 ---
THE INVESTMENT OUTLOOK FOR 2021
MONETARY AND FISCAL POLICY BRIDGED THE GAP IN ECONOMIC ACTIVITY
Policy makers have worked hard to build bridges over the The bridges appear to be working
tremendously troubled waters posed by the Covid-19 virus in
Support measures appear, on the whole, to be working (EXHIBIT 2).
2020 (EXHIBIT 1).
Despite an unprecedented plunge in activity, unemployment has
risen relatively modestly in Europe and has fallen back sharply in
Globally, governments issued trillions of dollars of debt to provide
the US. Corporate insolvencies have also been lower than might
support to affected businesses and workers. Indeed, in the US, we
have been anticipated.
estimate that roughly 75% of the workers that lost their jobs actually
received more from enhanced unemployment insurance than they
previously received from income in employment. This helped fuel the
Exhibit 2: Relatively few corporate bankruptcies suggest policy
recovery when infections subsided in the summer.
support is working
UK AND US COMPANY BANKRUPTCIES
Exhibit 1: Unprecedented monetary and fiscal coordination has Number of companies per quarter
supported activity UK company bankruptcies US company bankruptcies
GOVERNMENT BUDGET DEFICITS AND CENTRAL BANK GOVERNMENT BOND 8,000 US recession 18,000
PURCHASES
7,000 16,000
% of nominal GDP, 2020 estimate
2020 change in budget deficit as % of GDP Central banks' government bond 6,000 14,000
purchases as % of GDP
16 12,000
5,000
10,000
14
4,000
8,000
12
3,000
6,000
10
2,000
4,000
8
1,000 2,000
6
0 0
4 ’75 ’79 ’83 ’87 ’91 ’95 ’99 ’03 ’07 ’11 ’15 ’19
2 Source: Administrative Office of the United States Courts, Refinitiv Datastream,
UK Insolvency Service, J.P. Morgan Asset Management. Periods of “recession” are
0 defined using US National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER) business cycle dates.
UK US Eurozone Japan Data as of 17 November 2020.
Source: Bank of England, Bank of Japan, Bloomberg, European Central Bank, IMF, US
Federal Reserve, J.P. Morgan Asset Management. Budget deficits as % of GDP are And with news of viable vaccines we can now see the land on the other
forecasts for 2020 from Bloomberg contributor composite. Central bank government
side of the bridge. It may be some months away, depending on the
bond purchases are J.P. Morgan Asset Management forecasts for 2020.
Data as of 17 November 2020. speed at which the vaccines can be produced and distributed. But the
fact that there’s an end in sight should give policymakers the
confidence to keep extending their bridges, and corporates sufficient
However, much of the developed world is dealing with new waves of
hope to plough on through the difficult winter months.
infections and new restrictions to contain the spread. It is certainly
looking like a long and difficult winter. Our expectation, therefore, is that activity in developed economies will
remain depressed in the first quarter of the year, and potentially the
As a result, European policymakers are busy extending their bridges.
second. However, from the second half we could see a meaningful
The US is likely to follow suit. Many of the effective fiscal initiatives in
bounce in activity, once the vaccines are rolled out, pent-up demand is
the US ran out in the summer and, with infection rates likely to curtail
unleashed and life starts to return to normal.
the recovery through the winter months, a new fiscal package is
desperately needed. This may be delayed until after the 5 January run-
offs, which will dictate who takes the Senate. But a new fiscal package
is likely.
2 BRIDGE OVER TROUBLED WATERS

--- PAGE 3 ---
THE INVESTMENT OUTLOOK FOR 2021
Bridges come at a future cost…for investors Investors will have to look across geographies and
The extraordinary policy interventions have done a good job in asset classes to enhance returns
supporting the economy. But they come at a price. The Institute for Being ahead of potential sectoral and style shifts might help enhance
International Finance estimates that over the past year global returns. Assuming the news about vaccine efficacy and production
government debt has increased by USD 8.4tn and non-financial capacity continues to be constructive, markets may look through near
corporate debt has increased by USD 6.0tn. Does this mean a return to term economic weakness. Covid-19 generated considerable dispersion
government austerity and low business investment that will weigh on between the stock prices of those companies that facilitated the shift
the recovery? Not necessarily. As we discuss in the chapter The debt to life at home and those vulnerable to a need for social distancing.
deluge, we think the main consequence will be an extended period of The valuation premium between global growth and value reached the
low interest rates and continued asset purchases by the central banks. highest level since the dotcom boom. As we discuss in our chapter
This will ease the burden of debt for issuers, but presents considerable Winners and losers, we should be cautious about the idea of an
challenges for the returns on high quality fixed income. outright switch into value from growth. Instead, we would advocate
picking apart the secular story from the cyclical one within both styles,
Investors will also have to work hard to make sure the equities in
and focusing on areas where current valuations are justified by the
their portfolios are generating the returns they need. We start this
outlook for earnings growth.
new economic cycle with valuations that are higher than is normal
coming out of a recession (EXHIBIT 3). The fall in real rates has Regional shifts in allocation are also worth considering. China has
supported valuations. With interest rates closer to their nominal evaded the experience of recurrent waves seen elsewhere, seemingly
floor, such a repeated boost looks unlikely in the years ahead. More thanks to the sophistication of its internal test and trace system and
than ever, the emphasis will have to be on identifying the regions, the robustness of external border controls. As a result, it has bounced
sectors and companies that have the strongest underappreciated back remarkably quickly to pre-crisis levels of activity. The
earnings prospects. government’s recent five-year plan builds on this cyclical bounceback
with a convincing structural programme that aims to transition the
economy to consumer driven, internally generated growth. Add in the
Exhibit 3: Valuations are richer today than coming out of the
fact that the capital markets are maturing and we believe this could be
last recession
Asia’s decade for market performance, much like the way the US
EQUITY AND CREDIT VALUATIONS AT THE START OF THE CYCLE dominated the last cycle.
x, multiple (LHS); % point option-adjusted spread (RHS)
April 2009 May 2020 Investors should also be increasingly mindful of how their portfolios
25 Equity Credit 16 screen on environmental, social and governance factors. President-
elect Joe Biden is expected to increase the momentum behind tackling
14
climate change, as we discuss in our chapter Global momentum
20
12 towards tackling climate change. Policymakers will be pulling on many
different policy and regulatory levers to ensure that public and private
10
15 capital provides a solution to climate change.
8
Identifying reasonably valued opportunities for strong earnings growth
10
6
is imperative – but not an unusual challenge for investors. What is
4 more novel is the challenge we now face in constructing a balanced,
5
resilient portfolio. Core government bonds hold little appeal at such
2
deeply negative real interest rates, but abandoning them altogether
0 0 could leave investors with a much more volatile portfolio. In Rethinking
US Europe EM Global HY Global IG 60:40 we consider some ideas for portfolio construction.
Source: Bloomberg Barclays, ICE BofA, MSCI, Refinitiv Datastream, Standard & Poor’s, And finally, after such an unprecedented year, we should not
J.P. Morgan Asset Management. April 2009 and May 2020 mark the start of the last
underestimate the risks. In our final chapter, we provide an overview
two US cycles as defined by the trough in earnings per share estimates. US: S&P 500;
Europe: MSCI Europe; EM: MSCI EM; Global HY: ICE BofA Global High Yield; Global of our Central projections and risks, in terms of both macro scenarios
IG: Bloomberg Barclays Global Aggregate – Corporates. Data as of 17 November 2020. and portfolio ideas. The key upside risk is that the recovery takes hold
more quickly and is more synchronised across regions than we have in
our base case. The downside risk that has us most concerned is if it is
inflation rather than growth that returns with gusto. Central banks
would be forced to outline an exit strategy from their current stance
much more quickly than the market expects. This would trouble the
economic outlook but the challenges for the markets may be more
acute, as we saw in the taper tantrum of 2013.
J.P. MORGAN ASSET MANAGEMENT 3

--- PAGE 4 ---
THE INVESTMENT OUTLOOK FOR 2021
THE DEBT DELUGE MEANS LOWER INTEREST RATES FOR EVEN LONGER
Companies and governments have been forced to borrow trillions of Exhibit 4: Low interest rates will help governments grow into
dollars to cover revenue shortfalls during the period in which Covid-19 their debts
has restrained activity. Borrowing on such a large scale might have
US FEDERAL DEBT OUTSTANDING
been expected to put upward pressure on global interest rates. This % of nominal GDP, by fiscal year
was prevented by the extraordinary interventions of the central banks. 160 16
In the developed world, the central banks absorbed the entire new
14
140
issuance of governments this year (EXHIBIT 1).
12
120
Interventions were not limited to government bonds. The willingness 10 US nominal
GDP 10-year
of the Federal Reserve to buy even high yield credit gave investors the 100 8 moving average
reassurance needed to search for yield in credit markets. This 6
80
underpinned prices across the fixed income space. 4
60 2
Central banks are unlikely to withdraw this support any time soon. US 10-year Treasury yield
Structural inflation challenges in Europe and Japan suggest negative 40 0
interest rates and ongoing asset purchases are likely to continue -2
20
through 2021 at least. -4
0 -6
In the US, the Federal Reserve’s (Fed’s) new average inflation target
1915 ’25 ’35 ’45 ’55 ’65 ’75 ’85 ’95 ’05 ’15 1915 ’25 ’35 ’45 ’55 ’65 ’75 ’85 ’95 ’05 ’15
paves the way for it to maintain easy monetary policy for some time.
Aiming for a period of above-target inflation essentially delays the
US NOMINAL GDP GROWTH AND 10-YEAR TREASURY YIELD
point in the expansion at which the Fed might begin removing support,
%, nominal GDP growth is % change year on year
and this will create a ceiling for 10-year Treasury yields. In time, we
160 16
expect other central banks to adopt a similar framework.
14
140
The long and short of it is that interest rates are likely to stay at these 12
1l2e0vels for a considerable period of time. Indeed, we suspect we will see 10 US nominal
GDP 10-year
1 a 0 0 more muted version of the experience of the post-war period, in 8 moving average
which the combination of yield curve control and financial repression
6
h8e0ld interest rates down despite the acceleration in nominal activity.
4
This enabled governments to grow out of their debts relatively easily
60 2
(EXHIBIT 4). US 10-year Treasury yield
40 0
As long as inflation stays benign this should be relatively -2
s2t0raightforward for policymakers to deliver. But problems will arise if
-4
inflation returns with more gusto than it did in the last expansion. We
0 -6
don’t dismiss this risk. In the last expansion, the central banks faced a
1915 ’25 ’35 ’45 ’55 ’65 ’75 ’85 ’95 ’05 ’15 1915 ’25 ’35 ’45 ’55 ’65 ’75 ’85 ’95 ’05 ’15
considerable headwind given both banks and governments came out
of the recession focused on a multi-year period of deleveraging. The
Source: (Top) Haver Analytics, US Office of Management and Budget, J.P. Morgan Asset
central banks had their foot on the accelerator, while the commercial Management. JPMAM forecast from 2020 onwards. (Bottom) BEA, Haver Analytics,
banks and governments had their feet on the brake. We suspect Robert Shiller, J.P. Morgan Asset Management. Data as of 17 November 2020.
governments will be much more relaxed about deficit reduction this
time around.
Despite this we remain fairly confident that inflation in the euro-
zone and Japan will remain stuck at low levels. Their structural
disinflationary problems appear to have become more entrenched
in 2020.
4 BRIDGE OVER TROUBLED WATERS

--- PAGE 5 ---
THE INVESTMENT OUTLOOK FOR 2021
The US and UK may deserve greater scrutiny particularly when the Income-hungry investors will also be more dependent on the stocks in
base effects become less favourable in the spring (EXHIBIT 5). their portfolio to provide them with dividend income. Of course, in
2020, dividends were cut alongside interest rates, although the
experience has varied across regions. UK and continental European
Exhibit 5: Inflation may become a greater topic of conversation
markets have been in the eye of the storm, while lower payout ratios
when the base effects turn
and higher usage of buybacks (which are generally halted before
UK AND US HEADLINE INFLATION WITH FORECASTS companies alter dividend policy) have made for a much more resilient
% change year on year income stream from US stocks.
US UK
Again, there is light at the end of the tunnel (EXHIBIT 6). In Europe,
3.5 Forecast
analyst revisions for future dividends have seen an especially strong
3.0 bounceback after having bottomed in the summer. Meanwhile, industry
2.5 flow data shows investor appetite for dividend-focused strategies
globally improving steadily since August. Valuations are also attractive,
2.0
with high dividend stocks in developed markets trading at around two
1.5 standard deviations below their long-term average valuation relative to
growth stocks. From a sector perspective, financials and energy have
1.0
historically been two key sources of payouts. Following the ban on
0.5 bank dividends across the UK and eurozone in 2020, generally robust
capital positions should allow bank payouts to restart at some point
0.0
next year when regulators allow, while a recovery in oil prices would
-0.5 also improve the outlook for energy. Yet we would caution against
’13 ’14 ’15 ’16 ’17 ’18 ’19 ’20 ’21
relying on history to identify the strongest dividend payers. Resilient
dividends in areas such as utilities look well placed to maintain steady
Source: BLS, ONS, J.P. Morgan Securities Research, J.P. Morgan Asset Management.
Forecasts are from J.P. Morgan Securities Research and are from Q4 2020 onwards. growth, while some more cyclical areas including housebuilders are
Data as of 17 November 2020. seeing a strong recovery – all of which points to a broader mix of
dividend contributions going forward.
This leaves us with an aversion to government bonds. But we are not
of the view that they should be abandoned entirely. If interest rates do
Exhibit 6: The outlook for dividends is improving
not normalise over the coming years then at the next economic shock,
DIVIDEND REVISION RATIOS
whatever causes it, central banks such as the Bank of England and
% net upgrades as proportion of total dividend estimate revisions, three-month
Federal Reserve may have little choice but to use negative interest
rolling average
rates. A moderate allocation to long duration government bonds still
US Europe ex-UK UK
seems sensible as downside insurance given the returns that could be
40
achieved in such a shift to negative interest rates. Of course these
bonds stand to suffer if the economic performance is more robust, but
20
in this scenario we would expect other assets in the portfolio, such as
stocks, to compensate.
0
However, the role that Treasuries, Gilts and other developed market
-20
government bonds played in a portfolio may increasingly be played by
investment grade and high-quality emerging market sovereigns. We
-40
return to this issue in our chapter Rethinking a 60:40 portfolio.
-60
-80
’05 ’06 ’07 ’08 ’09 ’10 ’11 ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 ’16 ’17 ’18 ’19 ’20
Source: IBES, MSCI, Refinitiv Datastream, J.P. Morgan Asset Management.
Data as of 17 November 2020.
J.P. MORGAN ASSET MANAGEMENT 5

--- PAGE 6 ---
THE INVESTMENT OUTLOOK FOR 2021
THE COVID WINNERS/LOSERS NARRATIVE COULD CHANGE
The highly unusual nature of the Covid-19 recession has created stark Exhibit 8: Growth stocks benefitted from the shifts in spending in 2020
differences between winners and losers. From a macro perspective,
MSCI WORLD GROWTH AND VALUE PRICE RETURNS
service sectors have suffered disproportionately from social distancing
Index level, rebased to 100 in January 2020
restrictions. But this misfortune has benefited some manufacturers as
130
households have diverted spending from experiences to goods
120
(EXHIBIT 7). This has also affected regional performance as countries
with a high weight to services, and tourism in particular, have 110 Growth
generally lagged their more manufacturing-heavy counterparts.
100
90
Exhibit 7: People have spent where they could
80
US GOODS AND SERVICES CONSUMER SPENDING
Value
Nominal index level, rebased to 100 in January 2018 70
120
60
Goods
115
50
110 Jan ’20 Mar ’20 May ’20 Jul ’20 Sep ’20 Nov ’20
105 Services Source: MSCI, Refinitiv Datastream, J.P. Morgan Asset Management.
Data as of 16 November 2020.
100
With interest rates capped by the burden of debt, we see this outcome
95
as an upside risk rather than our central projection.
90
For now, we believe the key to successful allocation across equity
85
market sectors – and therefore across regions – will be to differentiate
80 between secular and cyclical tailwinds and headwinds. For growth
’18 ’19 ’20 sectors, the Covid-19 recession has been the catalyst for many years of
Source: BEA, Refinitiv Datastream, J.P. Morgan Asset Management. technological advancement and adoption to be condensed into a few
Data latest available as of 17 November 2020. quarters. We are confident that companies will allocate a greater
portion of their resources towards technology going forward, and see
Market performance was similarly bifurcated for much of 2020, as
many beneficiaries from this secular shift, including areas profiting
companies with a technology/online tilt benefited not only from their
from advancements in semiconductor technology and the adoption of
ability to grow earnings when most other sectors saw huge pressure
cloud computing. In other cases, though, growth stock valuations
on profits, but also from the decline in the discount rate used to
appear to assume that behaviours will permanently reflect a Covid-
calculate the present value of those future earnings streams
constrained environment. Investors must ensure that the price they
(EXHIBIT 8). In the summer, the gap in valuations between growth and
are paying for any company reflects an earnings outlook and market
value stocks reached levels not seen since the technology bubble.
share that can be achieved in a post-Covid world, not just the highly
Progress towards a vaccine has already changed this narrative as we unusual environment of this past year.
move into 2021. On the day that the news broke of an effective
The same debate of cyclical vs. secular can be used when assessing
vaccine, global value stocks experienced their best day relative to
the opportunities in value. In very simple terms, we expect companies
growth stocks since records began. The key question for next year is
and countries that have suffered most during the pandemic to be the
how confident we can be that this shift from the winners to the losers
biggest beneficiaries of a vaccine. Yet medical developments cannot
will be sustained.
remove all of the headwinds for every company. Take the energy
Valuations alone might suggest there is more room for this rotation to sector, for example. An improvement in the economic outlook should
run. Despite the very strong bounce in 2020’s laggards, such as clearly help to put upward pressure on oil prices as demand
financials and energy, since the vaccine announcement, both sectors normalises, and energy stocks should benefit accordingly. But secular
still lag broad indexes substantially year to date. Cheaper valuations headwinds remain as the world transitions away from dependence on
are also seen in regions such as the UK and Europe that are more fossil fuel towards renewables (see Global momentum towards tackling
tilted towards value sectors, while US indices look relatively more climate change). Careful stock selection will still be required.
expensive given the ‘big tech’ tilt.
In sum, progress towards a vaccine requires a much more balanced
There may come a point at which we are looking at a more meaningful
approach across styles, sectors and regions for next year. We expect
outperformance of value vs. growth. But a precursor to that, in our
the significant pressures on the Covid-19 laggards to ease, which in
view, would be higher interest rates and a steeper government bond
turn should catalyse a rotation across markets. But just as we avoided
yield curve, which would be a headwind to growth stocks and would
advocating an ‘all-in’ approach to growth in 2020, we do not see the
help financials within the value style. This scenario would require a
year ahead as the time to allocate indiscriminately towards only the
greater acceleration in nominal GDP and a more rapid tapering of
cheapest stocks. A vaccine will be a major step forward, but it will not
central bank asset purchases than we have in our core scenario.
cure all ailments.
6 BRIDGE OVER TROUBLED WATERS

--- PAGE 7 ---
THE INVESTMENT OUTLOOK FOR 2021
ASIA’S DECADE
For investors, the last decade was dominated by US market Despite the fast-growing consumer base, the Asian economies
performance. The period brought 10 years of standout returns from US and markets are still highly dependent on the dynamics in global
assets and an appreciating US dollar. In our view, the next decade may manufacturing and trade. But what has been a disadvantage for
be the Asian markets’ time to shine. the region in the recent years of trade conflict has been a relative
strength recently as the global consumer diverted its spending from
Crises often lead to secular shifts in market performance. The end of
services to goods.
the dotcom boom in 2000 marked the end of US growth
outperformance, and was followed by a period of strong performance
The yield opportunity
for value, emerging markets and European equities. After the global
financial crisis, the pendulum swung back in favour of the US. Due to the success in controlling the outbreak, the fiscal and monetary
response to the Covid-19 crisis was significantly smaller in Asia than in
Our expectation that we may see a similar shift this time is based on Europe and the US. As a consequence, central bank balance sheets are
our macro outlook and structural changes that are taking place as less bloated and bond yields fell less than US Treasuries.
Asia’s capital markets mature. The north Asian economies (China,
Korea, Taiwan), which represent the bulk of the investable universe in Structural changes in the region’s bond market are further increasing
Asia, have been more successful in containing the pandemic than the its appeal for global bond investors. In the past, restricted access and
rest of the world. New daily Covid-19 cases per million people, even at limited currency convertibility prevented Asian bond markets from
peak infection rates were just a fraction of those in other regions. Due playing a major role for global investors. But with the rising financing
to the limited outbreaks and the ability to keep track of infections, needs of the region, this is changing rapidly. Following the opening of
these economies appear to have put Covid-19 behind them. While the USD 15 trillion local renminbi bond market to overseas buyers,
Europe and the US still face significant restrictions to contain the yield-starved international bond investors now have the opportunity to
spread of the virus, China is already back to pre-crisis levels of activity invest in Chinese government bonds with yields north of 3%. As well as
(EXHIBIT 9). offering higher yields, local renminbi bonds have a relatively low
correlation to developed market bonds and zero return beta to global
equities, potentially boosting portfolio diversification and enhancing
Exhibit 9: China’s bounceback has been extraordinary risk-adjusted returns.
REAL GDP LEVELS
In the past 12 years, monthly return correlations between renminbi
Index level, rebased to 100 at 1Q 2006
bonds and global developed market bonds have been 0.1. With China’s
150 Forecast 400
US early success in containing the Covid-19 pandemic knocking its
UK China economic cycle out of sync with the rest of the world, we would expect
140 340
Eurozone correlations to remain low for the time being. The fact that the
renminbi remains to some degree managed by the authorities,
130 280
reducing currency volatility, also increases the appeal.
120 220
110 160
100 100
90 40
’06 ’08 ’10 ’12 ’14 ’16 ’18 ’20 ’22
Source: BEA, Bloomberg, Eurostat, National Bureau of Statistics of China, ONS,
J.P. Morgan Asset Management. Forecasts are from Bloomberg contributor composite.
Data as of 17 November 2020.
J.P. MORGAN ASSET MANAGEMENT 7

--- PAGE 8 ---
THE INVESTMENT OUTLOOK FOR 2021
The growth opportunity
North Asian equity markets outperformed many of the developed expected to eliminate 90% of tariffs between the trading partners if all
world indices in 2020, in large part thanks to their economic components of the product are manufactured inside the free trade
outperformance and relatively high weighting of tech and online area. This rule of origin provision could deepen the supply chains
companies. We expect this outperformance to continue for two inside the region since it incentivises the signatories to build the full
reasons. In the near term, the outperformance reflects the fact that supply chain inside the new free trade zone.
developed world activity will remain constrained until the vaccines are
As a result, Asian companies will be provided with plenty of
widely distributed and life can return to normal.
opportunities to grow in the coming years. China’s push to move
In the longer term, structural growth prospects in Asia are further up the value chain, presented in the latest five-year plan,
underpinned by urbanisation and the growth of the middle class. should facilitate its transition to a high-income economy and help it to
These trends are set to continue in the next decade in three of the weather the negative impact of deteriorating demographics. Asian
most populous countries in the world – China, India, and Indonesia – equities had a strong run in 2020; nevertheless, our 2021 Long-Term
creating large domestic and consumer-led markets. The new free trade Capital Market Assumptions suggest Asian equities still have the
agreement (Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership) covers 10 potential to outperform developed markets by 2.2% a year over the
ASEAN countries and China, Japan, Korea, Australia and New Zealand. next 10 to 15 years (EXHIBIT 10). Mounting signs that the 10-year-old
These 15 nations represent almost a third of global GDP. This should US dollar bull market is fading further reinforce our view that the next
further support the long-term growth outlook. The agreement is 10 years might go down as the Asian decade.
Exhibit 10: Asian stocks look favourable on our long-term projections
2021 LONG-TERM CAPITAL MARKET ASSUMPTIONS EXPECTED RETURNS IN COMING 10-15 YEARS
%, annualised returns in GBP
Equity Fixed income Alternatives Returns since 2009
16
14
12
10
8
6
4
2
0
-2
-4
UK govt. UK Gilts UK cash UK investment- US large Global Eurozone UK core Asia ex-Japan EM equity UK large cap
inflation-linked grade corporate cap infrastructure large cap real estate
Gilts bonds
Source: 2021 Long-Term Capital Market Assumptions, J.P. Morgan Multi-Asset Solutions, J.P. Morgan Asset Management. Returns are nominal and in GBP. Past returns are calculated
from the start of 2009 up to the end of October 2020, or the most recent available data. The projections in the chart above are based on J.P. Morgan Asset Management’s proprietary
long-term capital market assumptions (10-15 years) for returns of major asset classes. The resulting projections include only the benchmark return associated with the portfolio and
do not include alpha from the underlying product strategies within each asset class. The assumptions are presented for illustrative purposes only. Data as of 31 October 2020.
8 BRIDGE OVER TROUBLED WATERS

--- PAGE 9 ---
THE INVESTMENT OUTLOOK FOR 2021
GLOBAL MOMENTUM TOWARDS TACKLING CLIMATE CHANGE
For much of the last few years, tackling climate change appeared to Exhibit 11: All regions will have to intensify efforts to meet their
be just a European priority. European policymakers have certainly climate objectives
led the charge: even before the US’s withdrawal from the Paris
EMISSIONS TARGETS
Agreement, the EU had set more ambitious reduction targets and
MtCO2e/year
had made more progress towards meeting them. Moreover, their
China US EU
efforts have intensified in 2020 with the Commission’s commitment
16,000
to step up its green investments as part of its Green Deal and spend
Net zero targets
14,000
30% of the EU’s flagship recovery fund on green initiatives.
12,000
As we look to 2021, we see an increase in global momentum on
10,000
tackling climate change which could be formalised during the 26th
United Nations Climate Change Conference, also known as COP26, 8,000
which will take place in Glasgow on November 2021. This could have 6,000
far reaching implications for the way we live, produce and consume,
4,000
which will affect the investment landscape.
2,000
The election of Joe Biden in the US is an important contributor to our
0
expectations of increased momentum. The president-elect has stated
1990 2000 2010 2020 2030 2040 2050 2060
that rejoining the Paris Agreement will be a day one priority. In
addition to adopting and leading a multilateral approach on climate Source: ClimateActionTracker, J.P. Morgan Asset Management. MtC02e is metric tons
of carbon dioxide equivalent. Data as of 31 October 2020.
change abroad, Biden has ambitions to address climate change at
home with the signature of a series of executive orders to ensure
that ‘the US achieves a 100% clean energy economy and reaches The expected flood of green infrastructure projects in the next few
net-zero emissions no later than 2050’. However as Joe Biden will years, to the tune of several trillion dollars, presents significant
more than probably have to govern the country with a divided opportunities for investors in equity, fixed income and real assets.
congress he will need to focus on fiscal ‘carrots’ to achieve its climate The relatively young green bond market and its rapidly growing
objectives goal instead of ‘sticks’ (such as use of relevant taxes) in issuance globally provide a useful indicator of how this opportunity
order to win Republicans’ support. may evolve (EXHIBIT 12). Demand for green bonds is likely to remain
supported by regulatory levers. Central banks, such as the ECB, which
China has also stepped up its intent this year as it prioritised increasingly see climate change as part of their mandate, are also
sustainable growth as part of its new five-year plan, and has set out discussing the role of green bonds in their broad monetary policy
a target to become carbon-neutral by 2060. While this may seem operations, which may give a relative price advantage to green bonds
less ambitious than the EU’s and Biden’s 2050 target it would imply over other bonds with similar ratings and maturities.
a significant step change relative to the trajectory China has been
on so far. More focus will be placed on the quality over quantity of
Exhibit 12: Green bond issuance is expected to continue
economic growth – with increasing measures to address carbon
growing strongly
emissions and environmental protections.
GREEN BOND ISSUANCE BY REGION
EXHIBIT 11 shows how far the EU, US and China currently are from USD billions
these emissions objectives they have set themselves. Efforts will have 300
Africa
to intensify meaningfully in the coming years. For governments, this Latin America
provides an opportunity to kill two birds with one stone – to both 250 Supranational
green and revive their economies. High levels of public debt may Asia Pacific
North America
restrain spending ambitions, but that is likely to mean policymakers 200
Europe
use regulatory levers to ensure private capital is a core part of the
solution. Again, this is something investors need to understand. 150
100
50
0
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
Source: Climate Bonds Initiative, J.P. Morgan Asset Management.
Data as of 17 November 2020.
J.P. MORGAN ASSET MANAGEMENT 9

--- PAGE 10 ---
THE INVESTMENT OUTLOOK FOR 2021
RETHINKING THE 60:40 PORTFOLIO
Government bonds used to provide both an income and the prospect Chinese government bonds offer one potential solution, with a 2-3%
of strong positive returns during a recession. Balancing equity yield depending on duration, next to no correlation with global equities
exposure with significant government bond exposure therefore and the potential for long-term currency appreciation. Flexible fixed
became a core tenet of portfolio construction. But today, with such low income strategies with an absolute return objective could also help.
starting yields, government bonds offer little income or upside
Outside of fixed income, real assets such as real estate and
potential, forcing investors to rethink their approach to both
particularly infrastructure can offer more attractive yields in return
diversification and income generation.
for low liquidity. While real estate has clearly come under pressure
In the next decade, a traditional UK market 60:40 stock-bond because of Covid, we don’t believe people will be working from home
allocation is expected to earn only around 4% a year (2021 LTCMA forever, given that one of the key benefits of offices – having
estimate). But many investors require higher yields and higher returns everyone in the same place at the same time – cannot easily be
than that from their portfolios. replaced. Given office floor space requirement is driven by peak
demand, say on a Monday, post-pandemic demand may prove more
Seeking higher income robust than some fear. Nor will all shopping be done online; however,
just as the rise in online shopping creates a challenge for some retail
EXHIBIT 13 shows a range of fixed income asset classes offering
properties, it also creates an opportunity in warehouses.
income and their correlation with global equities. While higher yields
are available to investors prepared to look beyond developed market
Core infrastructure has demonstrated remarkably consistent and
government bonds, the challenge is building a fixed income portfolio
defensive income streams both during this recession and during the
with sufficient yield without uncomfortably increasing the correlation
last financial crisis. Given yields close to 7% and the ability to access
with equities.
reliable contracted or regulated cash flows with the potential for
capital upside and inflation protection, infrastructure could play an
Investors may be comfortable shifting a higher proportion of their
increasingly important part in investor portfolios for those who can
fixed income allocation towards credit, on the assumption that any
access it and are comfortable with the lack of underlying liquidity.
downside will be capped by central bank intervention. However, we
caution against abandoning a focus on fundamentals. Given the
ongoing near-term uncertainties, investors making their first steps out
of government bonds into the credit markets may benefit from
focusing on the highest-quality segments. We are also mindful that the
dependence on central bank support gives rise to risks of taper
tantrum-style events of the type seen in 2013.
Exhibit 13: Investors will need to look across the piste to get the best balance of yield and risk
FIXED INCOME YIELDS
%
10
8
6
4
2
0
-2
10 BRIDGE OVER TROUBLED WATERS
y01
ynamreG
y01
napaJ
y01
KU
y01
ylatI
y01
SU
GI
oruE
BBB
- GI
oruE
GI
labolG
GI
KU
GI
SU
BBB
- GI
KU
BBB
- GI
SU
BB
- YH
oruE
YH
oruE
BB
- YH
SU
YH
labolG
YH
SU
GI
.voS
DME
anihC
-
lacol
DME
etaroproC
DME
lacol
DME
ngierevoS
DME
YH
.voS
DME
Developed market Investment-grade bonds High yield bonds Emerging market bonds
government bonds
Return beta to MSCI World
-0.1 0.0 -0.1 0.1 -0.2 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.4 0.5 0.4 0.5 0.5 0.3 0.0 0.4 0.1 0.4 0.5
Source: Bloomberg, Bloomberg Barclays, ICE BofA, J.P. Morgan Economic Research, Refinitiv Datastream, J.P. Morgan Asset Management. Beta to MSCI World is calculated using
monthly total returns since 2008. Indices used are as follows: Euro IG: Bloomberg Barclays Euro-Aggregate – Corporate; Global IG: Bloomberg Barclays Global Aggregate –
Corporate; UK IG: Bloomberg Barclays Sterling Aggregate – Corporate; US IG: Bloomberg Barclays US Aggregate – Corporate; Euro HY: ICE BofA Euro Developed Markets Non-
Financial High Yield Constrained Index; Global HY: ICE BofA Global High Yield Index; US HY: ICE BofA US High Yield Constrained Index; EMD Corporate: CEMBI Broad Diversified;
EMD local: GBI-EM Global Diversified: EMD local – China: GBI-EM China: EMD Sovereign: EMBI Global Diversified; EMD Sov. IG: EMBI Global Diversified IG; EMD Sov. HY: EMBI Global
Diversified HY. Data as of 17 November 2020.

--- PAGE 11 ---
THE INVESTMENT OUTLOOK FOR 2021
Seeking diversification
While adding higher yielding credit, real estate and infrastructure to a during bull markets while still providing downside protection during
portfolio can help replace some of the income that government bonds bear markets (EXHIBIT 14).
used to offer, while still providing some diversification from equities,
In summary, while government bonds can still provide some
investors may need to look elsewhere for the kind of downside
diversification, they offer much less income and upside potential than
protection traditionally offered by government bonds.
they used to and are vulnerable to a potential pickup in inflation and/
Of the hedge fund strategies available, macro funds have historically or growth. By adding real estate, infrastructure and macro strategies
done the best job of consistently protecting portfolios during equity to portfolios, investors may be able to increase both their risk-adjusted
bear markets. While return expectations for macro funds as a whole income and returns relative to a traditional stock and bond portfolio
are relatively low, good manager selection may help to boost returns (EXHIBIT 15).
Exhibit 14: Macro funds have tended to provide downside protection
HEDGE FUND STYLE RETURNS DURING BEAR MARKETS
% total return
2000 bear market 2008 bear market 2020 bear market
30
20
10
0
-10
-20
-30
-40
Macro Equity neutral Merger arbitrage Relative value Hedge fund weighted Event-driven Distressed Equity hedge Quant directional
Source: Hedge Fund Research Indices (HFRI), Refinitiv Datastream, J.P. Morgan Asset Management. 2000 bear market is from 31 March 2000 to 31 October 2002, 2008 bear market
is from 31 October 2007 to 28 February 2009, 2020 bear market is from 31 January 2020 to 30 April 2020. Hedge fund strategies are defined in the HFRI hedge fund strategy
classification system. Data as of 17 November 2020.
Exhibit 15: Adding alternatives may help improve the risk/ return profile of a portfolio
EXPECTED RETURNS AND VOLATILITY FOR A GBP INVESTOR IN COMING 10-15 YEARS
% annual compound return
8
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
0
-1
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15
J.P. MORGAN ASSET MANAGEMENT 11
nruter
dnuopmoC
100% UK large cap
60% UK large cap
10% UK Gilts
10% UK core real estate
10% Global infrastructure equity
10% Macro hedge funds 60% UK large cap
40% UK Gilts
100% UK Gilts
Volatility
Source: Long-Term Capital Market Assumptions, J.P. Morgan Asset Management Multi-Asset Solutions. Expected returns and volatility assumptions refer to the next 10-15 years.
Forecasts are not a reliable indicator of current and future results. Data as of 31 October 2020.

--- PAGE 12 ---
THE INVESTMENT OUTLOOK FOR 2021
CENTRAL PROJECTIONS AND RISKS
Our core scenario is for a relatively robust recovery in the second half of 2021. But given the unprecedented nature of both the shock and the
policy reaction we should not underestimate the risks. In our view, the main upside risk is that the vaccine is rolled out more quickly and the
recovery is stronger and more synchronised globally. Our downside risk is centred on an unexpected rise in inflation which forces a more rapid
withdrawal of monetary stimulus than the market currently expects.
DOWNSIDE CENTRAL UPSIDE
MACRO INFLATION/ TAPER TANTRUM H2 ROBUST RECOVERY STRONG, SYNCHRONISED GLOBAL
SCENARIO GROWTH
• Inflation rebounds more quickly than • Activity remains weak during winter
expected. months. Vaccine rolled out in H1 • Medical solution is quick and easy
• Central banks stop easing, turn more allowing full reopening of economy to distribute and facilitates quick
hawkish. in Q3. Growth accelerates and reopening in H1.
• Yield curves steepen causing debt broadens. • Pent-up demand from consumers
burden to rise. • Central banks signal intent to keep stronger than expected.
• Governments taper fiscal support. interest rates low well into the • Fiscal authorities announce large-
cycle and continue asset purchases scale investment packages to spur
• Companies focus on deleveraging.
through H1 at least. (US 10yr growth and reduce inequality.
Treasury yield to trade <1.5%).
• Inflationary pressures build but not
• Brexit deal and EU recovery fund enough to deter central banks from
ratified. low-rate commitments.
• Governments do not revert to • Multilateral coordination to promote
austerity but do not act as major trade and investment to tackle
source of new stimulus. climate change.
• North Asian growth outperforms
US/ eurozone.
MARKET • Equities fall and underperform • Overweight to equities. • Sizeable overweight to equities.
SCENARIO government bonds. • Real returns in government • Real returns in core fixed income
• Fixed income challenged as carry bonds challenged. Fixed income strongly challenged. Yield curve
trades unwind. HY losses most opportunities limited to IG and steepens. HY and EMD preferred.
significant but IG also affected by selective high-quality HY and EMD. • Strong value and cyclical recovery,
change in perception of central • Rotation of cyclical Covid winners/ particularly financials. Small cap
bank backstop. Index-linked bonds losers (e.g. ecommerce to in-store outperforms.
outperform. retail). • Europe/UK/ broader EM
• EM underperforms across equities, • Secular themes remain supportive outperformance.
fixed income and currencies. for segments of growth and • Dollar weakens materially on broad
• Core infrastructure and real estate challenging for segments of value, basis.
outperform. preventing a full style rotation.
• Dollar strengthens. • Asian equities and fixed income
outperform.
• Long-term opportunity for
reasonably valued companies
providing solutions to climate
change.
• Focus on companies that screen well
on ESG characteristics.
• Focus on alternative diversifiers and
income-producing assets (macro
funds, real assets).
• Dollar weakens gradually on broad
basis.
12 BRIDGE OVER TROUBLED WATERS

--- PAGE 13 ---
EMEA MARKET INSIGHTS STRATEGY TEAM
Karen Ward Maria Paola Toschi Ambrose Crofton, CFA
Managing Director Executive Director Associate
Chief Market Strategist for EMEA Global Market Strategist Global Market Strategist
London Milan London
Tilmann Galler, CFA Michael Bell, CFA Max McKechnie
Executive Director Executive Director Associate
Global Market Strategist Global Market Strategist Market Analyst
Frankfurt London London
Lucia Gutierrez Mellado Hugh Gimber, CFA
Executive Director Vice President
Global Market Strategist Global Market Strategist
Madrid London
Vincent Juvyns Jai Malhi, CFA
Executive Director Associate
Global Market Strategist Global Market Strategist
Luxembourg London
The Market Insights program provides comprehensive data and commentary on global markets without reference to products. Designed as a tool to help clients understand the
markets and support investment decision-making, the program explores the implications of current economic data and changing market conditions. For the purposes of MiFID
II, the JPM Market Insights and Portfolio Insights programs are marketing communications and are not in scope for any MiFID II / MiFIR requirements specifically related to
investment research. Furthermore, the J.P. Morgan Asset Management Market Insights and Portfolio Insights programs, as non-independent research, have not been prepared in
accordance with legal requirements designed to promote the independence of investment research, nor are they subject to any prohibition on dealing ahead of the dissemination
of investment research.
This document is a general communication being provided for informational purposes only. It is educational in nature and not designed to be taken as advice or a recommendation
for any specific investment product, strategy, plan feature or other purpose in any jurisdiction, nor is it a commitment from J.P. Morgan Asset Management or any of its subsidiaries
to participate in any of the transactions mentioned herein. Any examples used are generic, hypothetical and for illustration purposes only. This material does not contain sufficient
information to support an investment decision and it should not be relied upon by you in evaluating the merits of investing in any securities or products. In addition, users should make
an independent assessment of the legal, regulatory, tax, credit, and accounting implications and determine, together with their own professional advisers, if any investment mentioned
herein is believed to be suitable to their personal goals. Investors should ensure that they obtain all available relevant information before making any investment. Any forecasts, figures,
opinions or investment techniques and strategies set out are for information purposes only, based on certain assumptions and current market conditions and are subject to change
without prior notice. All information presented herein is considered to be accurate at the time of production, but no warranty of accuracy is given and no liability in respect of any error
or omission is accepted. It should be noted that investment involves risks, the value of investments and the income from them may fluctuate in accordance with market conditions and
taxation agreements and investors may not get back the full amount invested. Both past performance and yields are not a reliable indicator of current and future results. J.P. Morgan
Asset Management is the brand for the asset management business of JPMorgan Chase & Co. and its affiliates worldwide. To the extent permitted by applicable law, we may record
telephone calls and monitor electronic communications to comply with our legal and regulatory obligations and internal policies. Personal data will be collected, stored and processed
by J.P. Morgan Asset Management in accordance with our privacy policies at https://am.jpmorgan.com/global/privacy. This communication is issued by the following entities: in the
United Kingdom by JPMorgan Asset Management (UK) Limited, which is authorized and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority; in other European jurisdictions by JPMorgan Asset
Management (Europe) S.à r.l.; in Hong Kong by JPMorgan Asset Management (Asia Pacific) Limited, or JPMorgan Funds (Asia) Limited, or JPMorgan Asset Management Real Assets
(Asia) Limited; in Singapore by JPMorgan Asset Management (Singapore) Limited (Co. Reg. No. 197601586K), this advertisement or publication has not been reviewed by the Monetary
Authority of Singapore; in Taiwan by JPMorgan Asset Management (Taiwan) Limited; in Japan by JPMorgan Asset Management (Japan) Limited which is a member of the Investment
Trusts Association, Japan, the Japan Investment Advisers Association, Type II Financial Instruments Firms Association and the Japan Securities Dealers Association and is regulated
by the Financial Services Agency (registration number “Kanto Local Finance Bureau (Financial Instruments Firm) No. 330”); in Australia to wholesale clients only as defined in section
761A and 761G of the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth) by JPMorgan Asset Management (Australia) Limited (ABN 55143832080) (AFSL 376919); in Brazil by Banco J.P. Morgan S.A.; in Canada
for institutional clients’ use only by JPMorgan Asset Management (Canada) Inc., and in the United States by J.P. Morgan Institutional Investments, Inc., member of FINRA; J.P. Morgan
Investment Management Inc. or J.P. Morgan Alternative Asset Management, Inc. In APAC, distribution is for Hong Kong, Taiwan, Japan and Singapore. For all other markets in APAC,
to intended recipients only.
Copyright 2020 JPMorgan Chase & Co. All rights reserved.
All illustrations are property of JPMorgan Chase & Co. unless otherwise stated.
LV–JPM52994 | 12/20 | 0903c02a82a6eff5