SOURCE: jpmorgan_am/jpmorgan_am_2020.pdf
PAGES: 5

--- PAGE 1 ---
Investment Outlook 2020
J.P. Morgan Asset Management | November 26, 2019
IN BRIEF
(cid:127) The U.S. economy has returned to slower growth, but should avoid recession in 2020.
(cid:127) Overseas economies should see modest improvement as trade tensions ease.
(cid:127) The Fed may leave rates unchanged in 2020, but other central banks are still in easing mode.
(cid:127) Modest U.S. equity gains should be built on somewhat higher earnings rather than multiple
expansion.
(cid:127) International equities should outperform in the long run, but will be challenged for as long as trade
tensions persist.
(cid:127) Market volatility could be higher in an election year. Investors will need to be well diversified and
should avoid letting how they feel about politics govern how they think about investing.
INTRODUCTION
American football is, in its essence, a simple game. One side tries to maneuver the football down the field
into the opponent's end zone and the opponent tries to stop them from doing so. However, the strategy
employed differs depending on where you are in the game. Early on, aggression is the keyword on both
sides of the ball, as each team is willing to take risks to put points on the board. But later on, particularly
when one team has racked up a lead, the tactics change. The leading team will run more and throw less
on offense. On defense, instead of trying to sack the quarterback, you double-team the wide receivers and
are willing to give up short yardage to avoid a long play against you.
How you should play the game depends upon where you are in the game.
Investors thinking about 2020 and beyond face similar strategic issues. Those who have participated in an
almost 11-year bull market in stocks and a more than 38-year bull market in bonds have racked up
substantial gains. However, starting from this point, considering both the current position of the U.S.
economy and current valuations, returns should be lower and some more defensive strategies may need
to be employed.
Having said this, we expect both the U.S. economy and the global economy to grow in 2020, with
decelerating growth in the U.S. and faster growth overseas. With inflation and interest rates still very low,
there should be potential for gains in equities in both the U.S. and from overseas. Fixed income returns will
be modest regardless of whether the next year brings small increases or decreases in long-term interest
rates. Meanwhile, investors will need to adhere to fundamental investing principles both to control risk in a
potentially more volatile environment and to take advantage of opportunities in recently less favored areas
such as emerging market (EM) equities.
U.S. ECONOMY: STEADY GROWTH FOLLOWING A SOFT LANDING
In 2020, the U.S. economic expansion should enter its 12th year, having successfully downshifted from 3%
growth to 2% growth without falling into recession. The remarkable longevity of the expansion and a
continuation of low inflation and unemployment are all significant positives. However, from an investment
perspective, the outlook is far from ideal. Slow economic growth and rising wages will put pressure on

--- PAGE 2 ---
margins while steady inflation should preclude a significant bond market rally. In addition, long-term
returns will be challenged by the implications of a growing budget deficit and political risks of greater
protectionism or higher taxation will continue to give investors plenty to worry about.
[Exhibit 1: Length of expansions and recessions in months. The current expansion started July 2009 and has
lasted 125 months, making it the longest on record. Average expansion: 48 months; average recession: 15
months. Source: NBER, J.P. Morgan Asset Management.]
The strongest part of the U.S. economy should continue to be consumer spending. Even as the lift from
the 2017 tax cuts fades, household spending will be supported by good gains in wages. Over the course of
2020, we expect real disposable income to climb by roughly 2.0%, as wages continue to outpace inflation
and payrolls gradually expand. Investment spending, however, will remain sluggish as businesses deal
with uncertainty from ongoing trade tensions and a slow-growing global economy. In addition, inventories
should grow more slowly, dragging on GDP growth, while trade and government spending should have
more neutral effects.
On balance, we believe the U.S. economy will avoid recession in 2020. The greatest risk of a downturn
centers around the possibility that businesses might collectively freeze or reduce hiring, given trade
uncertainty and a slow-growth outlook. However, this is probably not quite enough to cause a recession
and the historically most potent recession triggers appear less dangerous at this time.
First, long-term interest rates are unusually low for this late in an expansion. This means that neither
businesses nor consumers are getting boxed out of big-ticket spending decisions because of high
financing costs. Second, the most cyclical sectors of the economy are subdued with no boom in housing,
autos or capital spending. This reduces the risk of a boom-bust cycle pushing the economy into recession.
That being said, slow economic growth should translate into slow employment growth, with monthly job
gains of roughly 130,000 in 2020 compared to 170,000 in 2019 and over 220,000 in 2018. Very low labor
force growth implies that even this reduced pace of job growth should be consistent with a gradual
tightening of the labor market, with the unemployment rate falling to 3.3% in Q4 2020 from 3.5% a year
earlier. Despite this, wage growth will likely remain steady at between 3.0% and 3.5% year-over-year.
[Exhibit 2: Unemployment rate and year-over-year growth in average hourly earnings. 50-year averages:
unemployment 6.2%, wage growth 4.0%. Source: BLS, J.P. Morgan Asset Management.]
All of this should result in low and steady inflation, with the core consumption deflator gradually moving up
to a 2.0% year-over-year gain from its recent pace of 1.7%. Profits should also grow at only a
low-single-digit pace from a very elevated level. Finally, Washington will both impact and be impacted by
the economy in 2020. Despite signs of de-escalation in the trade war, the threat of tariff hikes will likely
remain through 2020, reducing exports, imports and investment spending. Much of the year will be spent
handicapping the November election. A divided government is the most likely outcome. Fiscal 2020 will
see the budget deficit exceed $1 trillion for the first time since 2012.
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMY: SOME IMPROVEMENT LIKELY AS TRADE
TENSIONS EASE
International economies have been under pressure for almost two years, thanks largely to the impact of
trade uncertainty on export volumes and capital spending. Manufacturing has felt the brunt of these
effects, while services have held up much better alongside resilient labor markets. In response to the
downshift in growth, many international central banks eased policy throughout 2019. The combination of
broad monetary easing and the expectation that the trade war will not escalate further should permit global
growth to stabilize and even shift slightly higher toward trend in 2020.

--- PAGE 3 ---
[Exhibit 3: Manufacturing PMI output index showing early signs of stabilization in global manufacturing, but no
2017-style reacceleration expected. Source: Markit.]
Regardless, slow growth prospects should pressure DM central banks to continue to ease policy despite
already holding benchmark rates in negative territory. In emerging markets, the most important issue
remains the evolution of trade policy: no further trade shocks should permit EM Asian economies to
stabilize. While China's economic growth may dip below 6% due to cyclical and structural factors,
monetary and fiscal easing over the past 18 months should allow it to stabilize just below that pace.
Growth will be anchored by the consumer; the rise of China's middle class should continue to fuel demand
for consumer goods and services. Both Brazil and Mexico should see a significant pickup in growth
compared to 2019.
[Exhibit 4: Inflation should remain low in both DM and EM countries. Source: ECB and national statistics
agencies.]
FIXED INCOME: LOW-YIELD INVESTING IN A HIGH-RISK WORLD
After a challenging 2018, fixed income investors caught a break in 2019: global central banks eased
monetary policy, the U.S. 10-year Treasury yield fell from 2.7% to 1.8%, and the U.S. Barclays Aggregate
returned 8.3% year-to-date, on track for its best year since 2002.
Central banks around the world re-entered easing mode in 2019, with the top-10 DM central banks cutting
rates eight times collectively after two years of broad-based policy tightening. This U-turn is exemplified by
the ECB restarting asset purchases after halting them in January 2019.
[Exhibit 5: Number of rate changes by top-10 DM central banks, showing the shift from hikes to cuts. Source:
Bloomberg.]
In the U.S., the path forward for monetary policy is less clear. With sluggish global growth and global
central banks in easing mode, the Fed will likely stay on pause until international economies stabilize. The
Fed's determination to ignore political pressure provides a further rationale for no policy change in an
election year.
Around the world, loose monetary policy and sluggish growth could further inflate the negative-yielding
bond bubble, which increased $3.7 trillion in 2019 to $12 trillion. At 2.30%, the 30-year U.S. Treasury yield
is higher than all other DM government debt. U.S. Treasury debt will continue to look like the best house in
a bad neighborhood. This stance favors longer duration fixed income.
[Exhibit 6: Stock of negative-yielding debt, USD trillions. Source: Bloomberg.]
As the hunt for yield continues, higher-yielding asset classes including USD-denominated EM debt and
global high yield may look attractive. However, investors should focus on quality and diversification: U.S.
Treasuries, municipal debt and mortgage-backed securities continue to offer some yield and downside
protection. At this stage in the economic cycle, a continued focus on quality and downside protection
seems an appropriate stance.
U.S. EQUITIES: LATE-CYCLE DEFENSE
On the surface, 2019 has been a solid year for the U.S. equity market, with the S&P; 500 up over 25%
through mid-November. Beneath the surface, however, fundamentals are showing signs of deterioration —
earnings growth has slowed, profit margins are under pressure and the pace of buybacks has come off the
boil. As we look ahead to 2020, we foresee modest profit growth and a stock market that grinds higher, but

--- PAGE 4 ---
downside risks are building.
The S&P; 500's forward P/E ratio currently sits at around 17.5x, near the higher end of its recent range.
With markets already pricing in material progress on trade, it is difficult to see how significant multiple
expansion can continue. Earnings look set to be the main driver of returns next year.
[Exhibit 7: S&P; 500 forward P/E ratio. Source: FactSet, S&P;, J.P. Morgan Asset Management.]
Consensus estimates are for 9% earnings growth in 2020, driven by an assumption that profit margins will
expand north of 12%. But given low unemployment, modest wage growth and moderate revenue growth, it
is difficult to see how this might materialize. Our top-down earnings model projects profit growth of around
1% next year under the assumption that profit margins fall to 10.6% by end-2020. If margins hover around
11%, our forecast improves to 2.5%. Regardless, these numbers are well below consensus and risks are
tilted to the downside.
[Exhibit 8: S&P; 500 year-over-year operating EPS growth broken into revenue, margin and share count
contributions. Source: Compustat, FactSet.]
Volatility tends to be higher in election years. We continue to focus on quality and total yield (dividends +
buybacks). This leads us to sectors such as technology, financials and energy, with more value-oriented
sectors commanding a valuation advantage. Defensive bond proxies look expensive. We balance
cyclicality and yield.
INTERNATIONAL EQUITIES: LESS OF A HEADWIND, BUT STILL A BUMPY
RIDE
For U.S. investors, a view on international equities depends on three variables: the dollar, earnings growth
and multiples. Slower U.S. economic growth combined with more stable global growth should allow the
dollar to stabilize if not fall in 2020. If this transpires, U.S.-based investors will avoid the currency headwind
that has eaten into international returns in six of the last seven years.
Greater global economic stability should bolster international earnings expectations. Multiples may expand
a bit further if the trade war truce continues. All told, international equities should move higher in 2020, but
with the ongoing risk of occasional policy flare-ups, the road will likely remain bumpy.
[Exhibit 9: 2020 contribution of all sources of returns to international total returns, USD. Source: FactSet, MSCI.]
[Exhibit 10: Global earnings expectations are slowly stabilizing. EPS, local currency, next 12 months. Source:
FactSet, MSCI.]
With developed international equity markets skewed more heavily toward cyclical sectors — financials,
energy, industrials and consumer discretionary — and away from technology, short-term performance is
closely linked to sentiment. International markets are somewhat inefficient relative to the U.S., giving active
managers potential to add alpha.
For EM equities, investor confidence is crucial in the short term as it leads to big swings in the multiple and
in EM currencies versus the dollar. Opportunities remain centered on the emerging middle class theme.
Many U.S. investors remain extremely underweight EM equities — a key reason to consider adding to this
asset class as a way of boosting long-term returns.

--- PAGE 5 ---
INVESTING PRINCIPLES: UNCERTAIN TIMES ARE EXACTLY WHEN
INVESTORS SHOULD STICK TO THE PLAN
With 2020 poised to be a volatile year dominated by political and geopolitical risk, it is more important than
ever for investors to adhere to tried and true investing principles. With the risk of a pullback, bear market
and/or recession rising with every passing year, the need to stick to the plan becomes more evident.
While it feels natural to react to the news cycle and market volatility, the point of any financial plan is for
moments like this. Even with the bull market entering its 12th year, we still believe equities are the return
powerhouses within portfolios. Consider sectors that earn a healthy portion of their return from shareholder
yield — technology, financials and energy. Given U.S. outperformance through most of the bull market,
investors should get back up to plan on international equity allocations.
[Exhibit 11: Consumer confidence by political affiliation. Percentage of Republicans and Democrats rating
national economic conditions as excellent or good. Source: Pew Research Center.]
A key point for investing in 2020 involves U.S. politics: do not let politics impact investment decisions.
Political affiliation affects views on the economy, which feeds into over- or under-allocation to risk assets.
Timing the market around elections requires deciding both when to exit and when to re-enter — and
missing even a handful of the best days can devastate returns.
[Exhibit 12: Returns of the S&P; 500. $100,000 invested Jan 4, 1999 to Dec 31, 2018. Fully invested: 5.62%
annualized. Missing the 10 best days: 2.01%. Missing the 20 best days: -0.33%. Missing the 60 best days:
-7.41%. Source: Morningstar Direct.]
Within fixed income, we are adding duration and higher-quality positions within credit. High-quality duration
provides the tried and true diversifier in a downturn. Being diversified within fixed income and across the
broader portfolio makes sense. Having a well-thought-out plan and sticking to it through a diversified
portfolio can prevent behavioral biases from taking hold and hurting returns.