SOURCE: morgan_stanley_im/morgan_stanley_im_2019.pdf
PAGES: 8

--- PAGE 1 ---
Global Multi-Asset Viewpoint
Key Investment Themes Into 2019
SOLUTIONS & MULTI-ASSET | GLOBAL MULTI-ASSET TEAM | MACRO INSIGHT | DECEMBER 2018
The fourth quarter of 2018 saw substantial shifts AUTHORS
in global asset prices, sentiment and fundamentals:
global growth went from a 3.5% pace to tracking
closer to 2.7%, the market went from expecting CYRIL MOULLÉ-BERTEAUX
nearly three Fed hikes in 2019 to zero, and the Portfolio Manager
Head of Global Multi-Asset Team
S&P 500 declined nearly 20% (Display 1) from late
Managing Director
September to late December while U.S. Treasury
yields fell to January 2018 levels.1 In light of this, in
this month’s letter, we review our outlook for key SERGEI PARMENOV
investment themes heading into 2019: Portfolio Manager
Global Multi-Asset Team
1) A fter a 2018 where the Fed’s Free Money regime Managing Director
ended (see March 2018 Viewpoint: “Regime Shift
– The End of Free Money”) and equity markets
Display 1: Stock Prices Converge Back to Earnings
massively underperformed the real economy
S&P 500 vs. 4Q2018 Trailing Operating Earnings Per Share
and profits, we expect a pause in the Fed’s rate
hiking cycle, a modest rebound in risky assets, Index US$
3000
and a stabilization in equity market multiples in
180
the first half of the year. By the second half, we
believe the focus will shift from equity multiple 2500 160
compression to earnings growth disappointments
140
as a likely 2020 recession approaches.
2000
120
In 2018, earnings in the U.S. grew 23% and yet
stocks fell -6% because price-to-earnings (P/E) 1500 100
multiples compressed by 24%—from 20.1x to
80
15.4x on trailing P/E.2 This is a greater than
1000
average multiple compression compared with a 60
typical Fed tightening cycle (historically, 9%),
40
mostly because equity multiples rose when the 500
2004 2006 2008 2010 2012 2014 2016 2018
Fed initially tightened policy in December
S&P500 (LHS) S&P500 4Q Trailing Operating EPS (RHS)
2015 (from 17.3x in December 2015 to 20.1x by
December 2017). Combined with the multiple Note: axes are scaled to show a S&P Price vs. Operating EPS
relationship equivalent to 15.8x P/E multiple over the entire period
drop in 2018, total multiple compression in the
Source: MSIM Global Multi-Asset Team Analysis.
recent tightening cycle has been -11%—generally Data as of January 13, 2019.
in line with the historical average of -9%.3 If The index performance is provided for illustrative purposes
the Fed does indeed pause while it assesses the only and is not meant to depict the performance of a specific
investment. Past performance is no guarantee of future results.
impact of tighter financial conditions (higher
See Disclosure section for index definitions.

--- PAGE 2 ---
MACRO INSIGHT
fed funds rates, lower stock prices, wider credit spreads, theme with overweight positions in global equities and EM
higher government bond yields) on the economy, Fed-driven ex-China equities, funded by U.S. equity underweights,
multiple compression is likely over. and with overweight positions in developed and emerging
market ex-China currencies against the U.S. dollar.
Earnings growth expectations, on the other hand, are
likely to keep falling throughout 2019. This will likely put
a ceiling on stock prices in 2019 and drive the resumption Display 2: U.S. Assets Overvalued Relative to
of the bear market in the second half of the year into Rest of World
2020. The consensus currently expects 7.5% earnings per U.S. vs. Developed Market (ex-U.S.) Asset Valuations (Equities, Fixed
Income and Currencies)
share (EPS) growth in 2019 (down from 10.5% just three
months ago), but actual earnings are likely to fall short of Z-Score
2.5
this expectation and, on our models, will most likely shrink
on a year-over-year basis by the fourth quarter of 2019.4 2.0 2.1z
This earnings miss will be driven by the negative impact of 1.5
slowing economic growth on revenues, U.S. dollar strength,
1.0
and margin compression as labor costs outpace selling
0.5
prices. 2020 will likely see down earnings for the year and
multiple compression (as usually happens in a recession). As 0.0
discussed in prior letters, we expect a recession to be driven -0.5
by tight Fed policy (we think that fed funds at 2.40% with
-1.0
core PCE inflation at 1.90% is modestly tight, assuming a
-1.5
zero neutral rate), the end of fiscal easing, a stronger U.S.
dollar, and weaker trade. So far, our proprietary long-
1970 1975 1980 1985 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2015 2020
leading recession indicator does not signal a recession in the
Combined Z-Score of U.S. vs. DM (Ex- U.S.) Relative Forward P/E,
next 15 months, but it is close and we will be monitoring Real Effective Exchange Rate (REER) and Bond Spreads
it over the coming year. Given this outlook, amid current
Source: MSIM Global Multi-Asset Team Analysis.
asset valuations (slightly cheap) and positioning (oversold),
Data as of January 13, 2019.
we maintain a neutral position in global equities and a
The index performance is provided for illustrative purposes only and
modest overweight in bonds (primarily in U.S. Treasuries is not meant to depict the performance of a specific investment. Past
and TIPS). performance is no guarantee of future results.
2) U .S. exceptionalism is likely coming to an end. In the 3) C hina bumpy landing risks are currently underappreciated
last decade, U.S. equities outperformed global equities and underpriced by markets. Investors have clearly
by 150%.5 This was generally driven by better economic recognized that Chinese growth has been weakening for the
activity (U.S. GDP is now nearly 20% above its pre-Global past two to three quarters, as have Chinese policymakers
Financial Crisis level, whereas the eurozone’s, for example, who ended an 18-month tightening cycle in July 2018.
is only 7% higher), more generous policy (easy monetary However, we believe there is widespread complacency
policy in most countries but more fiscal policy easing in the about the Chinese government’s ability to achieve its policy
U.S. than in most developed countries), and a better mix objectives (which investors assume to be: sufficiently strong
of faster growing companies (i.e., more tech and internet economic growth to ensure social stability, the cornerstone
companies in the U.S. and fewer banks and commodity of the Chinese Communist Party’s legitimacy). In our
stocks). The result is that U.S. stocks now trade at a 40% opinion, investors’ confidence in the Chinese government is
premium to the rest of the world’s stocks (on trailing simply based on what happened in the last three down cycles
earnings). Similarly, the U.S. dollar is 7% (or 0.7 standard over the past decade (first in 2008-09, then in 2011-2012,
deviations) above its long-term average on a real effective and again in 2015-16). In each downturn the authorities
exchange rate basis.6 (See Display 2) responded vigorously, and each easing cycle delivered
A key axiom of ours is that ‘the winners of one decade are improved economic growth and eventually market recoveries
rarely the winners of the next’. After a decade, winners (notwithstanding resulting volatility, e.g. the A-share bubble
tend to be overpriced and overloved as past fundamentals burst in 2015, the 2015-16 renminbi devaluation).
are extrapolated—all three apply to U.S. assets today. In Our work indicates that Chinese policymakers are now
this case, it does not mean that the rest of the world is caught between a rock and a hard place: they want strong
necessarily going to catch up to the U.S. More likely, the growth between 6-6.5% (profits shrink and defaults rise
U.S. will ‘catch down’ to the rest of the world, with its below the range of 6-6.5% growth) and, at the same time,
economic growth dropping below emerging markets (EM) a stable currency (in order not to attract the ire of President
ex-China growth (3-3.5%) and to a 1.5% pace that is similar Trump), no housing bubble (President Xi: “houses are for
to European growth.7 In that environment, U.S. stocks and living in, not for speculating”) and contained financial risks/
the U.S. dollar are likely to underperform—why pay a 40% leverage. Because of the irreconcilability of these multiple
premium for the same economic growth? In our portfolio, objectives, the government’s easing campaign which started
we have begun positioning for this potentially multi-year in July 2018 has been much more modest than the prior
2 MORGAN STANLEY INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT | SOLUTIONS & MULTI-ASSET

--- PAGE 3 ---
KEY INVESTMENT THEMES INTO 2019
three easing cycles (no “flood-irrigation stimulus,” as Prime 4) C ontinue to own gold in 2019. We are not gold bugs and
Minister Li Keqiang described it in October): there has been don’t believe that the fiat currency system is bound for
no generalized property easing; the central bank repeatedly failure. However, gold does tend to outperform when real
cut reserve requirements but has not cut interest rates, with interest rates fall, particularly if real rates are negative, and
the result being a continued negative credit impulse (Display the U.S. dollar weakens (Display 4). Basically, gold is viewed
3); and fiscal policy is clearly being eased with tax cuts and as an attractive safe haven asset when investors earn negative
increased infrastructure spending, but significantly offset by returns in U.S. dollar cash.
stronger tax collection enforcement.8
In addition, the current state of the Chinese economy is very Display 4: Gold to Rally to $1,500
Gold Spot Price Forecasted on U.S. TIPS and Dollar
different than when massive stimulus was first implemented
10 years ago: China’s private non-financial debt has nearly USD per Troy Oz
doubled—from 112% to 206%—and is now greater than 1800
any emerging country and most developed countries
(including the U.S.).9 The effectiveness of policy easing is 1600
likely to be much reduced compared to prior episodes. $1,500
1400
Eventually, by this summer, we expect the authorities will
be forced to open the floodgates and ease property policy,
ease restrictions on shadow banking and local government 1200
leverage, and cut interest rates, as they have done in prior
easing cycles. But in our view, this will occur after a deeper 1000
and longer slowdown than most expect. As a result, we
are maintaining a cautious stance on Chinese stocks, the 800
renminbi, and developed market stocks most sensitive to
Chinese growth and the currency, such as luxury goods
600
and elevator stocks. We also recognize that weaker Chinese
growth and a weaker renminbi may also impact the rest of
emerging markets, which is a risk to our emerging market 2006 2008 2010 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020
ex-China currency and equity overweights. We note that Gold Spot Price GMA Gold Model Based on U.S. TIPS and DXY
many emerging market countries have already begun to
deleverage after banking busts or deep recessions in recent Forecasts/estimates are based on current market conditions, subject to
change, and may not necessarily come to pass.
years and therefore, should be less vulnerable (but not
Source: MSIM Global Multi-Asset Team Analysis.
invulnerable) to a deeper China slowdown.
Data as of January 13, 2019.
Policy rates in the U.S. have risen from 0-0.25% to 2.40%,
Display 3: China Bumpy Landing Risks Underappreciated
but are only 50 basis points above core inflation.10 If the
China Nominal GDP Growth vs. Total Social Financing (TSF)
Fed pause extends beyond this summer, markets will likely
Stock Growth
begin to price in the possibility of a return to zero or even
Percent (%) Percent (%)
negative real interest rates. From current levels, it would
only take two rate cuts to reach zero real rates: this would be
18 35
very supportive of further upside for gold, particularly after
a deep and multiyear bear market.
16 30
In addition, a weaker dollar helps gold, as it typically means
14
25 miners’ costs are higher and global demand is stronger. We
also expect supply-side dynamics to be supportive of the
12
20 gold price over the next five years, as mine supply declines
10 9.7% from multiple years of underinvestment. We initiated an
15 overweight position in gold in the fourth quarter of 2018.
8 For more details on our views, please see our November
10.4% 10 2018 Global Multi Asset Viewpoint: “The Case for Higher
6
2010 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020 Gold Prices.”
China Nominal GDP YoY (LHS) TSF Adjusted Stock Growth YoY, led 9mo ( RHS)
Source: MSIM Global Multi-Asset Team Analysis.
Data as of January 13, 2019.
The index performance is provided for illustrative purposes only and
is not meant to depict the performance of a specific investment. Past
performance is no guarantee of future results.
SOLUTIONS & MULTI-ASSET | MORGAN STANLEY INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT 3

--- PAGE 4 ---
MACRO INSIGHT
5) Australia and Canada housing and credit bubbles finally 6) After 12 years of growth stocks outperformance, value
deflate. Unlike many other housing bubbles which collapsed stocks finally outperform as growth proves more cyclical
in the past 10 years, usually taking the local banking system than investors expect, and as venture capital and private
down with them, Australia and Canada’s housing bubbles equity funds seek exits for their tech and internet holdings
continued to build, fed by ever increasing mortgage debt. through a wave of initial public offerings, potentially flooding
Household debt in these countries stands at record highs public markets. Value stocks are as cheap as they have been
of 165-200% of disposable income, 50% above peak U.S. over the past 40 years (except during the tech bubble), with
household leverage in 2006, and comparable to Spanish and the Russell 1000 Value Index trading at a 28% discount to
Irish household leverage at the peak of their housing bubbles the Russell 1000 Growth Index, 8% below their long-term
(Display 5).11 In the meantime, Australian and Canadian average discount. The GMA team’s proprietary measure of
banks continue to reserve record low levels of provisions “pure value” is trading at a 27% discount to its historical
against potential future bad debts. Interestingly, higher average, only more extreme at the peak of the financial crisis
mortgage rates and increased macro-prudential regulation and during the 2000 tech bubble (Display 6).14
are creating the first significant cracks in those housing
markets: Australian finance approvals are down over 20% Display 6: U.S. Pure Value Cheapest in 18 Years‡
from peaks and house prices there have already fallen by GMA Pure Value Index Relative Valuation Composite (3mma)
over 6% in the past year; in Canada, Toronto and Vancouver
(x)
full-year home sales fell 16% and 32%, respectively.12 A
0.65
combination of tightening financing conditions (both
standards and costs) with near-record supply is likely to 0.60
create a housing bust similar to those seen elsewhere in
0.55
the past decade. This will have significant repercussions
across their respective economies, and will likely generate a 0.50
bad debt cycle that the banks are neither ready nor priced
0.45
for. Home prices could decline 20% from current levels
and could generate a 30-40% hit to bank earnings.13 As a 0.40
result, we are cautious on Canada and Australia, especially
0.36x
0.35
the banks.
0.30
Display 5: Australia and Canada Housing Credit Bubble
0.25
Household Debt to Disposable Income
0.20
Percent (%)
Australia
1975 1980 1985 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2015 2020
Recession shading Long-Term Average
180
Canada Source: MSIM Global Multi-Asset Team Analysis; Russell; Standard &
Poor’s. Data as of January 15, 2019.
160
The index performance is provided for illustrative purposes only and
is not meant to depict the performance of a specific investment. Past
140 performance is no guarantee of future results.
‡ The Global Multi-Asset Team (GMA)-constructed “pure” value and growth
style baskets, which include the top half of value (or growth) stocks in the
120 S&P 500 Index (i.e. 50% cheapest stocks for value and 50% “growth-iest”
stocks for growth). We define value and growth similarly to Russell (which
uses P/B, historical sales growth, and EPS estimates), though we use more
100 U.S. factors. We also equal weight stocks rather than use capitalization weights,
and the value and growth baskets have an equal number of stocks from
each sector to neutralize sector effects.
1995 2000 2005 2010 2015
Source: MSIM Global Multi-Asset Team Analysis.
Data as of January 13, 2019.
4 MORGAN STANLEY INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT | SOLUTIONS & MULTI-ASSET

--- PAGE 5 ---
KEY INVESTMENT THEMES INTO 2019
Historically from these levels, value stocks have outperformed Display 7: Value Outperformance Based on Starting
non-value stocks by 16% over the next 12 months (Display 7).15 Valuations
Given the magnitude and duration of underperformance in this Subsequent 12m Relative Total Return
cycle, they could outperform by twice as much. The caveat is Today
that value stocks typically outperform beginning in the middle Percent (%)
of recessions, after their earnings have been decimated and the 16 16.1%
markets start to sniff out a reacceleration in economic activity
14
—clearly not the case at this point. We are currently considering
a partial position in value stocks (hedged with non-value stocks; 12
partial because the slowdown we expect in 2019-20 may generate
an even better opportunity for value stocks). 10 10.6%
8
7.5%
6 6.6%
4
2
0
-1.2%
1 2 3 4 5
Largest Smallest
Discount Discount
Relative Valuation Discount of Cheapest vs Least Cheap Quintile of Stocks
12m Subsequent Performance of Best vs. Worst Value Quintile Based on
Starting Relative Valuations (1975-2017)
Source: MSIM Global Multi-Asset Team Analysis; Russell; Standard &
Poor’s. Data as of January 15, 2019.
SOLUTIONS & MULTI-ASSET | MORGAN STANLEY INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT 5

--- PAGE 6 ---
MACRO INSIGHT
RISK CONSIDERATIONS countries. Real estate investment trusts are subject to risks
similar to those associated with the direct ownership of real
There is no assurance that a portfolio will achieve its investment
estate and they are sensitive to such factors as management skills
objective. Portfolios are subject to market risk, which is the
and changes in tax laws. Restricted and illiquid securities may
possibility that the market values of securities owned by the
be more difficult to sell and value than publicly traded securities
portfolio will decline and that the value of portfolio shares may
(liquidity risk). Derivative instruments can be illiquid, may
therefore be less than what you paid for them. Accordingly,
disproportionately increase losses and may have a potentially
you can lose money investing in this portfolio. Please be aware
large negative impact on the Portfolio’s performance. Trading
that this portfolio may be subject to certain additional risks.
in, and investment exposure to, the commodities markets may
In general, equity securities’ values fluctuate in response to
involve substantial risks and subject the Portfolio to greater
activities specific to a company. Investments in foreign markets
volatility. Nondiversified portfolios often invest in a more
entail special risks such as currency, political, economic, and
limited number of issuers. As such, changes in the financial
market risks. The risks of investing in emerging market
condition or market value of a single issuer may cause greater
countries are greater than risks associated with investments
volatility. By investing in investment company securities, the
in foreign developed countries. Fixed-income securities are
portfolio is subject to the underlying risks of that investment
subject to the ability of an issuer to make timely principal
company’s portfolio securities. In addition to the Portfolio’s fees
and interest payments (credit risk), changes in interest rates
and expenses, the Portfolio generally would bear its share of the
(interest-rate risk), the creditworthiness of the issuer and general
investment company’s fees and expenses. Subsidiary and Tax
market liquidity (market risk). In the current rising interest-rate
Risk The Portfolio may seek to gain exposure to the commodity
environment, bond prices may fall and may result in periods
markets through investments in the Subsidiary or commodity
of volatility and increased portfolio redemptions. Longer-
index-linked structured notes. The Subsidiary is not registered
term securities may be more sensitive to interest rate changes.
under the 1940 Act and is not subject to all the investor
In a declining interest-rate environment, the portfolio may
protections of the 1940 Act. Historically, the Internal Revenue
generate less income. Mortgage- and asset-backed securities
Service (“IRS”) has issued private letter rulings in which
(MBS and ABS) are sensitive t early prepayment risk and a
the IRS specifically concluded that income and gains from
higher risk of default and may be hard to value and difficult
investments in commodity index-linked structured notes or a
to sell (liquidity risk). They are also subject to credit, market
wholly-owned foreign subsidiary that invests in commodity-
and interest rate risks. Certain U.S. government securities
linked instruments are “qualifying income” for purposes of
purchased by the Portfolio, such as those issued by Fannie Mae
compliance with Subchapter M of the Internal Revenue Code
and Freddie Mac, are not backed by the full faith and credit of
of 1986, as amended (the “Code”). The Portfolio has not
the United States. It is possible that these issuers will not have
received such a private letter ruling, and is not able to rely on
the funds to meet their payment obligations in the future. The
private letter rulings issued to other taxpayers. If the Portfolio
issuer or governmental authority that controls the repayment of
failed to qualify as a regulated investment company, it would
sovereign debt may not be willing or able to repay the principal
be subject to federal and state income tax on all of its taxable
and/ or pay interest when due in accordance with the terms of
income at regular corporate tax rates with no deduction for any
such obligations. Investments in foreign markets entail special
distributions paid to shareholders, which would significantly
risks such as currency, political, economic, and market risks.
adversely affect the returns to, and could cause substantial losses
The risks of investing in emerging market countries are greater
for, Portfolio shareholders.
than risks associated with investments in foreign developed
6 MORGAN STANLEY INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT | SOLUTIONS & MULTI-ASSET

--- PAGE 7 ---
KEY INVESTMENT THEMES INTO 2019
FOOTNOTES
1 MSIM Global Multi Asset Team analysis; Bloomberg. 11, 2018. https://www.economist.com/finance-and-economics/2018/11/15/
2 MSIM Global Multi Asset Team analysis; IBES Pro Forma EPS as of January what-china-talks-about-when-it-talks-about-stimulus
9, 2019. Actual/trailing 2018 EPS rose by +22.6%, while trailing P/E multiples 9 MSIM Global Multi Asset Team analysis; BIS.
contracted by 23.5%, and the market fell -6.3% (1.23 x 0.76 = 0.94). 10 MSIM Global Multi Asset Team analysis; Bloomberg.
3 MSIM Global Multi Asset Team analysis; IBES Pro Forma EPS as of January 11 MSIM Global Multi Asset Team analysis; Haver. Spanish household leverage
9, 2019. Trailing P/E multiples rose 16% from Dec 2015 to Dec 2017 but then was 142% of disposable income at the peak, and Irish household leverage
contracted 23.5% in 2018. The net of a 15% increase and subsequent 24% reached 232%.
contraction is n 11% multiple compression (1.16 x 0.77 = 0.89).
12 MSIM Global Multi Asset Team analysis; Australian Bureau of Statistics;
4 MSIM Global Multi Asset Team estimates; IBES. Toronto Real Estate Board; Real Estate Board of Greater Vancouver.
5 MSIM Global Multi Asset Team analysis; Bloomberg. From 30 June 2008 to 13 MSIM Global Multi Asset Team estimates.
30 September 2018, the S&P 500 returned +184%, while MSCI All-Country
World ex-US Index (in USD) returned 29%. 14 MSIM Global Multi Asset Team analysis; Haver; Datastream. A proprietary
measure of “pure value” which is equal weighted and sector neutral. It is
6 MSIM Global Multi Asset Team analysis; Bloomberg; Haver (entire paragraph). constructed by the GMA team based on the cheapest vs. most expensive
7 MSIM Global Multi Asset Team estimates. quintile of stocks, based on a composite of five valuation metrics.
8 Ten-year hangover,” The Economist, November 15 2018. Accessed January 15 MSIM Global Multi Asset Team estimates; Haver; Datastream.
DEFINITIONS Morgan Stanley Investment Management product.
The indices are unmanaged and do not include any expenses, fees or sales Certain information herein is based on data obtained from third party sources
charges. It is not possible to invest directly in an index. believed to be reliable. However, we have not verified this information, and
MSCI All Country World Index (MSCI ACWI) is a free float-adjusted we make no representations whatsoever as to its accuracy or completeness.
market-capitalization-weighted index designed to measure the equity market This material is a general communication, which is not impartial and all
performance of developed and emerging markets. information provided has been prepared solely for information purposes
The S&P 500 Index comprises 500 stocks chosen for market size, liquidity and does not constitute an offer or a recommendation to buy or sell
and industry grouping, among other factors. The index is designed to be any particular security or to adopt any specific investment strategy. The
a leading indicator of U.S. equities and is meant to reflect the risk/return information herein has not been based on a consideration of any individual
characteristics of the large cap universe. investor circumstances and is not investment advice, nor should it be
The U.S. Dollar Index (DXY) tracks the performance of a basket of leading construed in any way as tax, accounting, legal or regulatory advice. To that
global currencies versus the U.S. dollar. The index represents both developed end, investors should seek independent legal and financial advice, including
and emerging market currencies that have the highest liquidity in the advice as to tax consequences, before making any investment decision.
currency markets. Charts and graphs provided herein are for illustrative purposes only.
The information ratio (IR) is a measure of portfolio returns above the Past performance is no guarantee of future results.
returns of a benchmark, usually an index, to the volatility of those returns.
This communication is not a product of Morgan Stanley’s Research
The Russell 1000® Growth Index measures the performance of the large-cap Department and should not be regarded as a research recommendation.
growth segment of the U.S. equity universe. It includes those Russell 1000® The information contained herein has not been prepared in accordance with
Index companies with higher price-to-book ratios and higher forecasted legal requirements designed to promote the independence of investment
growth values. The Russell 1000® Index is an index of approximately 1,000 research and is not subject to any prohibition on dealing ahead of the
of the largest U.S. companies based on a combination of market capitalization dissemination of investment research.
and current index membership. The indexes are unmanaged and do not include any expenses, fees or sales
The Russell 1000® Value Index is an index that measures the performance charges. It is not possible to invest directly in an index. Any index referred to
of those Russell 1000 companies with lower price-to-book ratios and lower herein is the intellectual property (including registered trademarks) of the
applicable licensor. Any product based on an index is in no way sponsored,
forecasted growth values.
endorsed, sold or promoted by the applicable licensor and it shall not have
IMPORTANT DISCLOSURES any liability with respect thereto.
The views and opinions are those of the author as of the date of publication There is no guarantee that any investment strategy will work under all
and are subject to change at any time due to market or economic conditions market conditions, and each investor should evaluate their ability to invest
and may not necessarily come to pass. Furthermore, the views will not be for the long-term, especially during periods of downturn in the market. Prior
updated or otherwise revised to reflect information that subsequently to investing, investors should carefully review the strategy’s / product’s
becomes available or circumstances existing, or changes occurring, after relevant offering document. There are important differences in how the
the date of publication. The views expressed do not reflect the opinions of strategy is carried out in each of the investment vehicles.
all portfolio managers at Morgan Stanley Investment Management (MSIM) DISTRIBUTION
or the views of the firm as a whole, and may not be reflected in all the
This communication is only intended for and will be only
strategies and products that the Firm offers.
distributed to persons resident in jurisdictions where such
Forecasts and/or estimates provided herein are subject to change and may
distribution or availability would not be contrary to local
not actually come to pass. Information regarding expected market returns
laws or regulations.
and market outlooks is based on the research, analysis and opinions of the
authors. These conclusions are speculative in nature, may not come to pass United Kingdom: Morgan Stanley Investment Management Limited is
and are not intended to predict the future performance of any specific authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority. Registered
SOLUTIONS & MULTI-ASSET | MORGAN STANLEY INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT 7

--- PAGE 8 ---
in England. Registered No. 1981121. Registered Office: 25 Cabot Square, is not guaranteed. Please consider the investment objectives and nature
Canary Wharf, London E14 4QA, authorised and regulated by the Financial of risks before investing. As an investment advisory fee for an IAA or an
Conduct Authority. Dubai: Morgan Stanley Investment Management IMA, the amount of assets subject to the contract multiplied by a certain
Limited (Representative Office, Unit Precinct 3-7th Floor-Unit 701 and rate (the upper limit is 2.16% per annum (including tax)) shall be incurred in
702, Level 7, Gate Precinct Building 3, Dubai International Financial Centre, proportion to the contract period. For some strategies, a contingency fee
Dubai, 506501, United Arab Emirates. Telephone: +97 (0)14 709 7158). may be incurred in addition to the fee mentioned above. Indirect charges
Germany: Morgan Stanley Investment Management Limited Niederlassung also may be incurred, such as brokerage commissions for incorporated
Deutschland Junghofstrasse 13-15 60311 Frankfurt Deutschland (Gattung: securities. Since these charges and expenses are different depending on a
Zweigniederlassung (FDI) gem. § 53b KWG). Ireland: Morgan Stanley contract and other factors, MSIMJ cannot present the rates, upper limits,
Investment Management (Ireland) Limited. Registered Office: The etc. in advance. All clients should read the Documents Provided Prior to
Observatory, 7-11 Sir John Rogerson’s, Quay, Dublin 2, Ireland. Registered in the Conclusion of a Contract carefully before executing an agreement. This
Ireland under company number 616662. Authorised and regulated by Central document is disseminated in Japan by MSIMJ, Registered No. 410 (Director
Bank of Ireland. Italy: Morgan Stanley Investment Management Limited, of Kanto Local Finance Bureau (Financial Instruments Firms)), Membership:
Milan Branch (Sede Secondaria di Milano) is a branch of Morgan Stanley the Japan Securities Dealers Association, The Investment Trusts Association,
Investment Management Limited, a company registered in the UK, authorised Japan, the Japan Investment Advisers Association and the Type II Financial
and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), and whose registered Instruments Firms Association.
office is at 25 Cabot Square, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4QA. Morgan Stanley U.S.:
Investment Management Limited Milan Branch (Sede Secondaria di Milano)
A separately managed account may not be suitable for all investors. Separate
with seat in Palazzo Serbelloni Corso Venezia, 16 20121 Milano, Italy, is
accounts managed according to the Strategy include a number of securities
registered in Italy with company number and VAT number 08829360968.
and will not necessarily track the performance of any index. Please consider
The Netherlands: Morgan Stanley Investment Management, Rembrandt
the investment objectives, risks and fees of the Strategy carefully before
Tower, 11th Floor Amstelplein 1 1096HA, Netherlands. Telephone: 31
investing. A minimum asset level is required. For important information
2-0462-1300. Morgan Stanley Investment Management is a branch office
of Morgan Stanley Investment Management Limited. Morgan Stanley about the investment manager, please refer to Form ADV Part 2.
Investment Management Limited is authorised and regulated by the Financial Please consider the investment objectives, risks, charges
Conduct Authority in the United Kingdom. Switzerland: Morgan Stanley &
and expenses of the funds carefully before investing. The
Co. International plc, London, Zurich Branch Authorised and regulated by the
Eidgenössische Finanzmarktaufsicht (“FINMA”). Registered with the Register prospectuses contain this and other information about
of Commerce Zurich CHE-115.415.770. Registered Office: Beethovenstrasse the funds. To obtain a prospectus please download one at
33, 8002 Zurich, Switzerland, Telephone +41 (0) 44 588 1000. Facsimile
morganstanley.com/im or call 1-800-548-7786. Please read
Fax: +41(0) 44 588 1074.
the prospectus carefully before investing.
Hong Kong: This document has been issued by Morgan Stanley Asia Limited
for use in Hong Kong and shall only be made available to “professional Morgan Stanley Distribution, Inc. serves as the distributor for
investors” as defined under the Securities and Futures Ordinance of Hong Morgan Stanley funds.
Kong (Cap 571). The contents of this document have not been reviewed
nor approved by any regulatory authority including the Securities and NOT FDIC INSURED | OFFER NO BANK GUARANTEE | MAY LOSE
Futures Commission in Hong Kong. Accordingly, save where an exemption VALUE | NOT INSURED BY ANY FEDERAL GOVERNMENT AGENCY
is available under the relevant law, this document shall not be issued, | NOT A DEPOSIT
circulated, distributed, directed at, or made available to, the public in Hong
IMPORTANT INFORMATION
Kong. Singapore: This document should not be considered to be the subject
of an invitation for subscription or purchase, whether directly or indirectly, EMEA: This marketing communication has been issued by Morgan Stanley
to the public or any member of the public in Singapore other than (i) to Investment Management Ireland Limited (“MSIM Ireland”). Authorised and
an institutional investor under section 304 of the Securities and Futures regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority. Registered in England No.
Act, Chapter 289 of Singapore (“SFA”); (ii) to a “relevant person” (which 1981121. Registered Office: 25 Cabot Square, Canary Wharf, London E14 4QA.
includes an accredited investor) pursuant to section 305 of the SFA, and The information contained in this communication is not a research
such distribution is in accordance with the conditions specified in section recommendation or ‘investment research’ and is classified as a ‘Marketing
305 of the SFA; or (iii) otherwise pursuant to, and in accordance with the Communication’ in accordance with the applicable European or Swiss
conditions of, any other applicable provision of the SFA. This material has regulation. This means that this marketing communication (a) has not been
not been reviewed by the Monetary Authority of Singapore. Australia: prepared in accordance with legal requirements designed to promote the
This publication is disseminated in Australia by Morgan Stanley Investment independence of investment research (b) is not subject to any prohibition
Management (Australia) Pty Limited ACN: 122040037, AFSL No. 314182, on dealing ahead of the dissemination of investment research.
which accept responsibility for its contents. This publication, and any MSIM Ireland has not authorised financial intermediaries to use and to
access to it, is intended only for “wholesale clients” within the meaning distribute this document, unless such use and distribution is made in
of the Australian Corporations Act. Japan: For professional investors, this accordance with applicable law and regulation. Additionally, financial
document is circulated or distributed for informational purposes only. For intermediaries are required to satisfy themselves that the information in this
those who are not professional investors, this document is provided in relation document is suitable for any person to whom they provide this document in
to Morgan Stanley Investment Management (Japan) Co., Ltd. (“MSIMJ”)’s view of that person’s circumstances and purpose. MSIM shall not be liable
business with respect to discretionary investment management agreements for, and accepts no liability for, the use or misuse of this document by any
(“IMA”) and investment advisory agreements (“IAA”). This is not for the such financial intermediary.
purpose of a recommendation or solicitation of transactions or offers any
This document may be translated into other languages. Where such a
particular financial instruments. Under an IMA, with respect to management
translation is made this English version remains definitive. If there are any
of assets of a client, the client prescribes basic management policies in
discrepancies between the English version and any version of this document
advance and commissions MSIMJ to make all investment decisions based
in another language, the English version shall prevail.
on an analysis of the value, etc. of the securities, and MSIMJ accepts such
commission. The client shall delegate to MSIMJ the authorities necessary The whole or any part of this work may not be reproduced, copied or
for making investment. MSIMJ exercises the delegated authorities based transmitted or any of its contents disclosed to third parties without MSIM’s
on investment decisions of MSIMJ, and the client shall not make individual express written consent.
instructions. All investment profits and losses belong to the clients; principal
Explore our site at www.morganstanley.com/im
© 2019 Morgan Stanley. All rights reserved. CRC 2383251 Exp. 01/31/2020 9467626_CH_0119