SOURCE: morgan_stanley_im/morgan_stanley_im_2022.pdf
PAGES: 3

--- PAGE 1 ---
Morgan Stanley Investment Management - 2022 Global Outlook
2022 Global Strategy Outlook
Fundamentals Will Dominate
Morgan Stanley Research | November 2021
The current market cycle has been hot and fast. So much so, in fact, that investors are now confronting a
very different dynamic for the year ahead - early-cycle timing, midcycle conditions and late-cycle valuations,
with exuberance to boot.
"As unprecedented fiscal and monetary policy support fades, fundamentals dominate," says Andrew Sheets,
Chief Cross-Asset Strategist for Morgan Stanley Research.
Inflation in Major Markets Will 'Peak Then Retreat'
While inflation will be at levels higher than many investors have seen before, Morgan Stanley economists
believe prices will soon "peak then retreat" as supply chain pressures ease and prices for many commodities
normalize. To that end, central banks likely won't take drastic measures to raise rates and pump the brakes
on growth. That said, investors have an almost Pavlovian response to any talk of tightening, which is just one
of many reasons to approach U.S. equities and Treasuries with caution.
Emerging markets seem primed for growth, but it's too early to be all-out bullish those markets, say
strategists. "In China, headwinds from energy prices, regulation and COVID remain, and our expectations
don't call for major policy easing, at least not yet," says Sheets. "The one exception is high-yield credit in
China, where we think that the market is underestimating the resolve and ability of policymakers to control the
disruption in the property sector."
1. Time to Lighten Up on U.S. Stocks?
In a view that is "most likely to raise eyebrows," says Sheets, strategists think the S&P 500 index could
decline 5% in 2022 while other developed markets could end the year higher. They recommend
underweighting U.S. stocks to account for high valuations and more catch-up potential and less volatility
elsewhere in the world.
"The persistent price outperformance of U.S. stocks for much of the last decade has been driven by superior
and more durable earnings trends, but uncertainties are mounting around cost pressures, supply issues,
policy uncertainty and tax changes," says Mike Wilson, Chief U.S. Equity Strategist.
2. European and Japanese Stocks Are Calling
In contrast to U.S. equities, stock markets in Europe and Japan are more reasonably priced and geared
toward growth. "And thanks to reduced inflationary pressures, their central banks should be exceedingly
Page 1/3

--- PAGE 2 ---
Morgan Stanley Investment Management - 2022 Global Outlook
patient," says Sheets, whose team recommends investors overweight both markets.
In Japan, equities continue to deliver improving returns on equity, while economic stimulus, business
reopenings and strong global capex all suggest that Japan's stock market could appreciate 12% next year.
Meanwhile, the MSCI Europe index has enjoyed its best period of relative outperformance in 20 years
compared to the rest of the world, and that pattern should continue thanks to increased mergers and
acquisitions, buyback activity and changes in investor positioning since many global portfolios had been
underexposed to the region.
"Our combined earnings and valuation assumptions suggest that European stocks can deliver an 8% price
return and double-digit total return," says Graham Secker, Chief European Equity strategist. The team's top
sector picks include autos, energy and financials, which should all benefit from the move up in real yields.
3. Stock Selection Could Matter More Than Style and Sector
Morgan Stanley strategists believe health care, financials and secular technology companies could see
upside in the year ahead. Consumer goods and cyclical technology stocks could lag as supply and demand
dynamics settle into a more normal pattern.
Even so, relative to other points in this market cycle, there are fewer opportunities for investors to take
advantage of big swings in styles and sectors.
"In our view, the economic and political environment has been permanently altered from its pre-COVID days,
although the changes are not necessarily due to the pandemic itself," says Wilson. The eventual outcome
should mean greater investment and productivity, but that could take years to play out. "That breeds higher
uncertainty and dispersion, making stock picking more important than ever in the year ahead," Wilson says.
4. Government Bonds Are All Over the Map
Central banks in developed markets responded to the COVID-19 pandemic with near-uniform interest policies
and a deluge of liquidity.
In 2022, however, bond markets will need to make sense of differentiated policies. "Some policies, such as in
the UK and Canada, will be aimed at outright tightening financial conditions, while others will attempt to ease
financial conditions further, albeit at a slower pace, or maintain accommodative financial conditions," says
Matthew Hornbach, Global Head of Macro Strategy.
Morgan Stanley strategists recommend underweighting U.S. Treasuries - particularly those with intermediate
maturities - in expectation of the 10-year Treasury moving past 2% by the end of 2022. They also see agency
mortgage-backed securities coming under pressure from rich valuations and higher volatility.
Local emerging market debt is starting to look interesting, say strategists, but investors should be patient.
"With expectations that the U.S. dollar and real yields rise to start the year, we think that investors will get a
better entry point later in the year," says Hornbach, whose team thinks the U.S. dollar will strengthen in the
first half of the year, but lose steam in the second half.
Page 2/3

--- PAGE 3 ---
Morgan Stanley Investment Management - 2022 Global Outlook
5. In Commodities, Oil Springs Ahead
For the first time in a decade, commodities outperformed the S&P 500 in 2021, for a variety of reasons. Gold
prices have been supported by stagflation concerns and the pushing out of rate hike expectations, while base
metals have benefited from the combination of constrained supply and rising demand.
Looking ahead, metals may lose their luster as high real yields weigh on gold prices, while copper and zinc
prices soften with better supply. Aluminum remains a top pick for the strategists, who point to cyclical and
structural factors.
Within commodities, oil offers the best combination of valuations and fundamentals, says Chief Commodity
Strategist Martijn Rats. His team believes oil could top $90 a barrel in 2022 as rising demand meets relatively
spare capacity.
Source: Morgan Stanley Research. Full report: "2022 Global Strategy Outlook: The Training Wheels Come Off" (Nov 14, 2021).
Page 3/3