SOURCE: morgan_stanley_im/morgan_stanley_im_2018.pdf
PAGES: 11

--- PAGE 1 ---
The Benedict-McLoughlin Report
2018 Investment Outlook
By Christopher Benedict, CFA
 Volatility has returned to global financial markets and I expect that it will be with us for
the foreseeable future as interest rates continue to normalize.
 Despite the expected continued volatility, economic and earnings growth should drive
equity valuations higher over the next year or two.
 Caution is still warranted for traditional fixed income investors as interest rates appear
to be in an uptrend.
“healing” to a more normal state. In the
THE BENEDICT-MCLOUGHLIN GROUP Global equities started 2018 the same way
they left 2017…in a tight, upward trend,
U.S., the economy also benefitted from
The Benedict-McLoughlin Group provides the actual introduction as well as the
rising over 5% just in the month of
investment advisory and wealth management promise of expansionary fiscal policies
January. Investors continued to take their
services to a broad range of individuals, families, such as de-regulation, tax cuts and
cue from the three pillars of; solid global
and institutions. As a boutique investment advisory infrastructure spending. Additionally,
economic growth, pro-growth policies in
practice specializing in portfolio management, we significant technological innovation in
the U.S., and relatively low interest rates.
offer our clients direct access to their portfolio recent years has benefitted the global
Things changed a little in February…
decision-maker, uniquely differentiating us from our economy from both an employment
global equities as measured by the MSCI
competition. While we offer our clients a widerange boost in the technology sector as well as
All Country World Index sold off just over
of investment options, including individually an overall productivity boost as
10% from their recent peak, signaling the
managed portfolios, most importantly, we bring the companies implement innovative
first real correction in more than a year.
knowledge and experience as well as a hands-on products. In fact, Mckinsey & Co.
While I believe the first two pillars of solid
style that helps our clients make well- informed
believes productivity could expand at a
growth and a pro-growth environment
decisions at every stage of the investment
2% pace over the next ten years due to
should be with us for a couple of more
decision-making process.
technological advances1.
years, the third pillar likely will not.
Importantly, this does not signal the end The wild card going forward will be the
The Benedict-McLoughlin Group of the bull market…it just means that we continued “normalization” of monetary
Chris Benedict, CFA® will likely see more of a “two-way trade” policy. While the big central bank
First Vice President – Wealth Management (i.e., more volatility) in a world of both unwind really began in December 2015
Senior Portfolio Manager rising earnings and rising rates. when the Fed raised the fed funds rate
chris.benedict@morganstanley.com
for the first time since 2006, it began to
Earnings growth has been steady, if not
pick up steam in 2017 with three fed
Brian McLoughlin spectacular, since the Great Recession as
Vice President – Wealth Management global economic growth has been funds increases and the start of the Fed’s
Financial Advisor bond selling program to reverse
somewhat muted when compared to past
brian.mcloughlin@morganstanley.com quantitative easing (i.e., quantitative
economic recoveries. The massive
10960 Wilshire Boulevard tightening). These increases in the fed
monetary policy stimulus by the global
Los Angeles, CA 90024
funds rate are expected to continue in
Tel 310-443-0555 central banks provided a huge backstop
2018 at roughly the same pace while the
Fax 310-443-0566 and likely helped us avoid an economic
bond selling program is actually
depression. Only last year did we really
scheduled to accelerate its pace as we
see a slight uptick in economic growth as
move through 2018.2 Combine this with
the economy appeared to transition from

--- PAGE 2 ---
the additional increased supply of bonds from the U.S. generally considered a neutral rate, so, while an increase
Treasury to fund the continued budget deficits and the towards the 3.80% rate should not put us into recession, it
backdrop remains conducive for interest rates to keep will likely have an effect on global financial markets with
climbing for the foreseeable future, in my opinion. an increase in volatility the most likely result.
Investing 2.5 – Updating to Investing 2.0 This battle of rising earnings and rising rates will likely be
raging for the next couple of years. Of course, the value
As my regular readers know, I hypothesized in December
of an asset, such as a stock, depends on cash flow, the
2016 that the Republican sweep of the elections would
growth of that cash flow and the discount rate used to
“push out” the next recession by a couple of years and
calculate the present value of those future cash flows.
effectively give risk assets a runway for about two to three
Since the Great Recession, investors have enjoyed a
more years (or two and half years, i.e., Investing “2.5”).
positive environment of growing earnings/cash flows
Fast forward a bit more than a year and, with the
while interest rates stayed at historically low levels…which
appropriate flexibility inherent in these types of
enabled valuation metrics to expand. If rates do rise,
predictions, I think we are now in an Investing “2.0”
multiple expansion becomes less likely and stock market
world. In other words, risk assets like global equities
returns would need to be driven by actual earnings growth.
should continue to perform well through the end of 2019
The good news for bulls is that analysts expect earnings to
as the outlook for economic growth and earnings looks
grow by 17% in 2018 and another 10% in 2019, so, even
fairly good.
with a little multiple contraction, stock returns could still
be pretty good.4
Overall earnings were already doing pretty well when they
got a boost with the reduction of the corporate tax rate to Asset Allocation5
21% under the recent U.S. tax overhaul. One of the key
questions is; what will corporations do with the resulting Of course, before any investor begins to analyze specific
increased cash flow? Will they buy back more stock, markets or securities, a proper asset allocation strategy
increase their dividends, pay employees more, or invest in should be established. Unfortunately, asset allocation
their business? The first two uses effectively boost stocks often takes a back seat to specific securities or sectors in
in a direct manner while the latter two uses could boost investment research reports and the financial media. This
stocks in a less direct manner by potentially improving is a bit counterintuitive as the asset allocation decision is
overall economic activity. The announcements from often described as one of the most important decisions an
companies so far indicate that we will basically see “all of investor has to make. Every investor has unique
the above”. objectives and risk tolerances and constructing an
allocation strategy based on these unique characteristics
Investing 2.0 also has important implications for fixed
can help minimize unnecessary risk given a certain return
income investing, namely, interest rates should continue
objective or, similarly, help maximize the expected return
their upward trend for the foreseeable future. The
given a certain risk level. The fact that different asset
fundamentals warrant it and the Fed appears determined
classes and sub-asset classes are not perfectly correlated
to do its part…and we all know what happens to bond
enables what amounts to be the closest thing to a “free
prices as rates increase (see graph on p. 7). During
lunch” in the investment world as overall portfolio risk
“normal” times, the 10-year U.S. Treasury note typically
may be reduced by combining asset classes that are
yields around the inflation rate + 2%. With inflation
uncorrelated (See graph on p. 8). Therefore, it is my
currently at 1.8% as measured by the core CPI index, this
contention that a proper asset allocation strategy
implies a “fair value” yield of 3.80% for the 10-year vs. the
implemented and managed in a disciplined fashion by a
current 2.84%.3 So, still a lot of room for interest rates to
qualified investment professional can add significant value.
rise and, if we do get an up-tick in inflation due to tighter
However, it is important to note that even proper
employment/wage inflation (likely, in my opinion…see
diversification does not guarantee a profit or protect
graph on p. 7), then we could see a “4 handle” on the 10-
against a loss, as 2008 and early 2009 so vividly
year rate. Importantly, this inflation rate + 2% is
demonstrated.
2 THE BENEDICT-MCLOUGHLIN GROUP

--- PAGE 3 ---
I essentially address asset allocation strategy at three levels; an investor’s long-term plan should not have been
long-term (strategic) target allocation ranges, significantly impaired. Compare that to a market timer
short/intermediate-term (tactical) adjustments within who may have thought the market bottomed and moved
target ranges, and periodic re-balancing. For example, 100% into equities in 2001/early 2002 or in 2008 (pre-
considering a hypothetical investor with a strategic target Lehman Brothers bankruptcy), only to suffer through
allocation of 50% stocks and 50% bonds (for the sake of significant declines which take many years to make up.
simplicity, ignore other asset classes for the moment), I Similarly, investors that move to 100% cash may run the
would target strategic ranges of 35 – 65% for stocks and risk of getting back in the stock market too late in order to
35 – 65% for fixed income as opposed to actual fixed- achieve their long-term return objectives.
point targets of 50% each. Once a strategic range is
Finally, careful monitoring and rebalancing are considered
established, I then tactically determine where in the range
essential components of a disciplined approach. A major
we should be. The more attractive I believe equities are,
benefit of rebalancing, of course, is the potential reduction
for example, the higher the allocation within the range. Of
of overall portfolio volatility. For example, if stocks
course, these ranges also apply to sub-asset classes like
outperform bonds for a period of time, eventually an
small versus large capitalization equities, for example (see
investor’s allocation to stocks will likely grow to a
table on p. 4). Finally, a re-balancing review is done at
percentage above the high end of the strategic range. In
least annually or following significant market moves.
this case, rebalancing would require trimming stocks and
The philosophical underpinning of my approach to asset adding to fixed income. Recent examples of this would
allocation is rooted in the belief that the core of an have been during the stock market run-up in the late 1990s
investment portfolio should be strategically positioned for and 2006 - 2007 where trimming stocks and adding to
the long-term, given the specific objectives and risk fixed income served investors well while the opposite
tolerance of the investor. To be sure, wholesale market- move in late 2002/early 2003 and late 2008/early 2009 was
timing calls (i.e., shifting entire allocation into all stocks or the appropriate adjustment. By incorporating rebalancing
all cash, for example) have historically proven difficult to in an asset allocation strategy, an investor is essentially
execute consistently. However, by allowing subtle, tactical “forced” to sell relatively dear assets while buying relatively
shifts within the strategic ranges, skilled portfolio cheap assets. Buying low and selling high has never served
managers are generally able to take advantage of relative an investor wrong. It will be important for investors to
value discrepancies while still leaving room for error. For continue to monitor their portfolios as relative
example, in early 2003, I moved my equity exposure to the performance of certain sub-asset classes (i.e., US equities
high end of strategic ranges because I believed the relative relative to international equities, for example) may have
risk/return tradeoff between stocks and investment-grade stretched relative valuations too far and will eventually
fixed income significantly favored stocks. Although that succumb to the “reversion to the mean” phenomenon that
turned out to be correct, if equities had continued their tends to repeat itself in financial markets.
downward slide following the Internet bubble and 9/11,
3 THE BENEDICT-MCLOUGHLIN GROUP

--- PAGE 4 ---
Hypothetical Allocation Ranges with a Balanced Allocation*
Asset Class Minimum (%) Target (%) Maximum (%)
Domestic Large Cap Equities 10% 20% 40%
Global Small/Mid Cap Equities 0% 5% 15%
International/EM Equities 5% 15% 30%
Total Equities 25% 40% 55%
Asset Class Minimum (%) Target (%) Maximum (%)
Tax-Exempt Fixed Income 5% 20% 35%
Global Taxable Fixed Income 0% 10% 25%
High Yield/Floating Rate Fixed Income 0% 10% 20%
Total Fixed Income 25% 40% 55%
Specialty/Alternative/Opportunistic** 5% 20% 35%
Total 100%
*For illustrative purposes only and should not be construed as a specific recommendation.
**Specialty/Alternative/Opportunistic may include hedge funds, private equity, real estate as well as tactical investments that are shorter term in nature.
Please note that alternative investments, such as hedge funds and funds of hedge funds are made available only to qualified investors and involve varying degrees of
risk.
Importantly, many new investment vehicles are making sophisticated institutional investors. From my
this process easier for the knowledgeable investor. Not perspective, these choices enable tremendous flexibility to
only should investors broaden their horizons match specific client objectives with the appropriate
geographically speaking, I believe they also need to investment allocation, the appropriate investment vehicle,
broaden their horizons in terms of investment vehicles as and the ability to manage the entire process in the most
well. Gone are the days where an investor just had to effective manner.
consider stocks, bonds and mutual funds. Today, we
have Separately Managed Accounts (SMAs), Exchange Current Strategy
Traded Funds (ETFs), closed-end funds, asset-linked
Given my view that economic growth looks promising at
Certificates of Deposit and, of course, an increasing
least for the next couple of years, combined with my view
number of alternative strategies (for qualified investors).
that interest rates are still too low, I continue to
Furthermore, over 2000 international companies are
overweight equities and underweight fixed income in my
tradable in the U.S. via American Depository Receipts
model portfolios. Generally speaking and using the S&P
(ADRs). These choices, while potentially daunting,
500 as an example, if investors assign an 18 multiple on
enable private investors as well as smaller institutions to
2019 consensus earnings estimates, the target for the
invest on the same playing field as the largest and most
4 THE BENEDICT-MCLOUGHLIN GROUP

--- PAGE 5 ---
index would be 3114 in early 2019.6 This would be an still too low, in my opinion. Investors that would like to
approximate 16% total return including dividends over achieve a return in the fixed income portion of their
the next twelve months. If investors only applied a 16 portfolios should consider overweighting high yield
multiple to these same earnings, then the total return corporate and emerging market bonds. Given the higher
would be about 4%, Importantly, if my interest rate spreads (i.e., higher yields), I continue to believe it is more
forecast is correct, even the 4% would handily beat the beneficial to take appropriate credit risk as opposed to
Barclays Aggregate Bond index, which would provide a interest rate risk at this point. Our model portfolios are
negative return if yields go up the almost 100 basis points also utilizing Master Limited Partnerships, Yield Co.’s and
that I think they will. dividend paying equites to generate income.
Within equities, my model portfolios are overweight later- Where appropriate, non-traditional investments such as
cycle and economically sensitive areas like energy, total and absolute return strategies are also an important
materials and consumer discretionary. I also expect to part of a well balance portfolio, in my opinion. These
build up our weighting in financial services over the next strategies attempt to achieve a decent return regardless of
few months. We remain underweight consumer staples how equity markets are performing and may help to
and utilities. Globally, I have become a bit more agnostic reduce overall portfolio risk due to their low correlation
between the U.S. and international as international to traditional equities and fixed income. Please see the
markets outperformed in 2017 with the help of a weaker tables below and on p. 9 for a summary of my
US dollar. The U.S. earnings outlook is actually stronger overweights and underweights.
now and I would expect the dollar to hold its own and
cnb
maybe strengthen a bit as interest rates rise.
Within income investing, my model portfolios continue
to be underweight U.S. Treasury securities and investment
grade bonds in general. Despite a pretty decent increase
in rates over the past six months, the yields in this area are
Tactical Allocation Recommendations
Alternative
Equities: +1 Fixed Income: …-1 Investments: …Equal Legend
U.S. Equal Treasuries …-2 …+2 20% Overweight
Int'l/Em. Mkts Equal Inv. Grade Corp./Muni’s Equal
…+1 10% Overweight
Growth …-1 High Yield …+1
Equal Equal Weight
Value …+1 REITS …-1
…-1 10% Underweight
Large Cap Equal Floating Rates …+2
…-2 20% Underweight
Small/Mid Cap Equal
For illustrative purposes only and should not be construed as a specific recommendation. Alternative investments are made available only to qualified investors and involve varying
degrees of risk.
5 THE BENEDICT-MCLOUGHLIN GROUP

--- PAGE 6 ---
(Other) Things to Watch
- U.S. Deficit/U.S. Dollar: Although in better shape - Terrorism: Sporadic terrorist strikes in Western
nations remind us that the threat is still there. While
than during the Great Recession, we continue to run
these attacks in the West are serious, they pale in
large deficits and it appears that this will improve
comparison to what has been happening in the
only modestly over the next year or two, assuming
Middle East, particularly in Syria. Besides the
we do see some growth upside. I do see the dollar
obvious and tragic human toll, it is a combination of
stabilizing and potentially increasing as interest rates
the waste of resources used to combat terrorism
likely rise in the U.S. at a quicker pace than in Europe
(military, police, etc.) as well as a reduction in overall
and Japan. Any weakness in the Yen and the Euro
freedom that acts as a detriment to economic activity.
can cause regional trade issues and not everybody’s
currency can weaken at the same time. That said, the
Overall, terrorism adds to global uncertainty and this
clearest case for renewed dollar strength remains vs.
increases the risk premium for investors (i.e., lower
the Yen, in my opinion.
asset valuations, all else equal). And, unfortunately,
- Protectionism: The severe global recession and its terrorism will continue to be a perennial risk and
aftermath has factions in many countries continuing terrorists will continue to be active globally. Of
to push for policies that would “protect” their course, a worst case would result from a terrorist
respective economies…and now it appears that the strike using Weapons of Mass Destruction (WMD),
U.S. Administration has joined this party. Of course, either nuclear or biological. A large enough event
we have learned that protectionist policies during the has the potential to negatively affect globalization
Great Depression exacerbated that economic and even population growth.
downturn and we have proven the economic benefits
of free trade in both theory and practice. I mean, - Europe: Despite the exit of the U.K. from the E.U.,
come on, is this not why we educate ourselves? Europe has the potential to be become a positive
Hopefully, our bark is louder than our bite on the catalyst that could help move the global economy to
protectionist front. the next stage of recovery. While the membership of
the European Union may, in fact, be different three
- The “Welfare State”: Social safety nets play an years from now, the original reasons for the
important role in a modern economy; however, they European Union (efficiency, increased global
can also dis-incentivize people from becoming competitiveness, etc.) are as relevant as ever, in my
productive members of society. There is an optimal opinion. Investors should hope for a relatively
point and any country/economy that goes beyond orderly evolution.
this point risks developing a culture where risk-taking
is less prevalent, which could reduce economic - U.S. Housing Market: The statistics appear to be
dynamism at the margin. The new Administration consistent with a fairly healthy and normal housing
appears to want to bring the U.S. back towards that market. Prices have been rising in the past couple of
optimal point. years and housing starts have improved from
unsustainably low levels. Overall, I expect the
measured recovery for housing to continue for a few
more years. The path of interest rates is a wild card,
though. If rates rise too fast, it could counteract
improving fundamentals overall.
6 THE BENEDICT-MCLOUGHLIN GROUP

--- PAGE 7 ---
GRAPHS OF INTEREST
Total Return Impact of a 1% Rise/Fall in Interest Rates
Source: Morgan Stanley Wealth Management GIC
U.S Unemployment Rate (1/31/18)
Source: Morgan Stanley Wealth Management GIC
7 THE BENEDICT-MCLOUGHLIN GROUP

--- PAGE 8 ---
Asset Class Correlations (12/31/17)
Source: Morgan Stanley Wealth Management GIC
Composition of S&P 500 Total Returns (12/31/17)
Source: Morgan Stanley Wealth Management GIC
8 THE BENEDICT-MCLOUGHLIN GROUP

--- PAGE 9 ---
Summary of Overweights and Underweights
Asset Class/
Industry/Sector Reason
Overweights
Large Cap Multi-Nationals Still cheaper than small caps on many metrics. Large cap multi-nationals are generally in stronger financial shape and are
more exposed to global growth, particularly from emerging markets. U.S. based multinationals would get added benefit
from a stabilizing U.S. dollar over time.
Consumer Discretionary Consumers have been helped by low interest rates for years and have increasingly been helped by the improving labor
market. The drop in oil prices is further help. This combination should help the housing, retail and consumer technology
sectors, among others. Any wage improvement would be a boost.
High Dividend Over the long run, dividends have accounted for a significant portion of the total return in equities (see graph on p. 8). I
Yield Equities believe this will be the case over the short and intermediate term as well.
China/Emerging Markets I believe we are in a significant shift of economic “power” from a U.S./Europe driven economic model to one where
(Consumer Focused) emerging market consumers decide that they would like a similar lifestyle which they increasingly see Westerners enjoy on
the TV/Internet. There is still a very wide per-capita income gap between the emerging and developing markets that I
expect will continue to narrow over time. Importantly, this dynamic should create a positive feedback loop for the global
economy.
Energy After a significant bear market in 2015/2016, the price of oil has recovered fairly nicely. However, the stocks of energy
companies remain largely depressed. OPEC should continue to support the market and the energy sector typically does
better in the late cycle and when inflation is rising.
Corporate/High Yield In the context of an overall underweight in fixed income, I am overweighting this sub-asset class. An expansionary
Fixed Income economic backdrop should help keep yield spreads relatively tight.
Floating Rate Loans/Bonds In the context of an overall underweight in fixed income, I am overweighting this sub-asset class. The floating rate nature
of these securities essentially eliminates any duration risk while still yielding around 2 percentage points above LIBOR.7
Many of the existing securities outstanding are trading below par so there is the added potential of capital appreciation as
credit markets normalize.
Absolute/Total Return In what I believe will be a relatively modest return environment over the next 10 years, strategies that are designed to
Strategies achieve high single digit returns may be additive to overall portfolio returns. These strategies typically have a low
correlation to traditional assets, which may help reduce overall portfolio risk.
Underweights
Long-term Fixed Income Rates remain historically low. Real rate of return below historical average. The Fed is normalizing monetary policy.
Higher quality bonds relatively expensive versus equities.
U.S. Treasury Securities Low yields, potential future inflation and increasing supply to fund record deficits pretty much sums it up.
Highly Valued Tech Many of the mega cap technology companies have done spectacularly well and their valuations assume many more years of
spectacular growth, which may be tough if we see increased regulation.
Developed Market Seen as a “safe haven” in the early years of the recovery, they are now expensively valued as a result. Further, other sectors
Consumer Staples Stocks have become more “palatable” as the global economy stabilizes.
Real Estate Investments The U.S. commercial real estate has stabilized after the meltdown of 2008/2009. However, the recovery continues to be
Trusts (REITs) slow and dividend yields are still unattractive, particularly as overall interest rates rise.
For illustrative purposes only and should not be construed as a specific recommendation. A review of each investors financial situation and risk tolerances must be performed to
determine suitability of any investments. * indicates new recommended overweight or underweight
9 THE BENEDICT-MCLOUGHLIN GROUP

--- PAGE 10 ---
.
The Benedict-McLoughlin Group at
Morgan Stanley
10960 Wilshire Boulevard
Los Angeles, CA 90024
Phone: 310.443.0555
Fax: 310.443.0566
chris.benedict@morganstanley.com
brian.mcloughlin@morganstanley.com
1. Bloomberg News, 2/20/18
2. Bloomberg Markets, 3/8/18.
3. Bloomberg Markets, 3/16/18.
4. Barron’s, 2/12/18.
5. Much of this section is from my 2004 Investment Outlook, Oppenheimer & Co. Inc., 2/16/04.
6. Barron’s, 2/12/18.
7. LSTA, www.lsta.org, 3/19/18
Investments in high-yield or distressed securities involves a substantial risk of default and/or loss of principal and may be more difficult to sell prior to maturity than investment grade
securities. Accordingly, they are not suitable for all investors and careful consideration should be given to individual objectives before engaging in such transactions.
Investors should be willing and able to assume the risks of equity investing. The value of a client’s portfolio changes daily and can be affected by changes in interest rates, general
market conditions and other political, social and economic developments, as well as specific matters relating to the companies in which securities the portfolio holds.
Small cap stocks carry greater risk than investments in larger, more established companies.
The views expressed herein are those of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of Morgan Stanley Smith Barney or its affiliates. All opinions are subject to change without
notice. Neither the information provided nor any opinion expressed constitutes a solicitation for the purchase or sale of any security.
This report contains forward looking statements and there can be no guarantees they will come to pass. The information and statistical data contained herein have been obtained from
sources believed to be reliable but in no way are guaranteed by Morgan Stanley Wealth Management as to accuracy or completeness.
There is no guarantee that the investments mentioned will be in each client's portfolio.
The investments listed may not be suitable for all investors. Morgan Stanley Smith Barney LLC recommends that investors independently evaluate particular investments, and
encourages investors to seek the advice of a financial advisor. The appropriateness of a particular investment will depend upon an investor's individual circumstances and objectives.
Information contained herein has been obtained from sources considered to be reliable, but we do not guarantee their accuracy or completeness.
Actual results may vary and past performance is no guarantee of future results. Asset Allocation, Diversification and Rebalancing do not guarantee a profit or protect
against a loss.
This material does not provide individually tailored investment advice. It has been prepared without regard to the individual financial circumstances and objectives of persons who
receive it. The strategies and/or investments discussed in this material may not be suitable for all investors. Morgan Stanley Wealth Management recommends that investors
independently evaluate particular investments and strategies, and encourages investors to seek the advice of a Financial Advisor. The appropriateness of a particular investment or
strategy will depend on an investor’s individual circumstances and objectives.
10 THE BENEDICT-MCLOUGHLIN

--- PAGE 11 ---
Equity securities may fluctuate in response to news on companies, industries, market conditions and the general economic environment. Companies cannot assure or guarantee a
certain rate of return or dividend yield; they can increase, decrease or totally eliminate their dividends without notice.
The initial interest rate on an inflation-linked security may be lower than that of a fixed-rate security of the same maturity because investors expect to receive additional income due to
future increases in CPI. However, there can be no assurance that these increases in CPI will occur. Some inflation-linked securities may be subject to call risk.
International investing may not be suitable for every investor and is subject to additional risks, including currency fluctuations, political factors, withholding, lack of liquidity, the absence
of adequate financial information, and exchange control restrictions impacting foreign issuers. These risks may be magnified in emerging markets.
The value of fixed income securities will fluctuate and, upon a sale, may be worth more or less than their original cost or maturity value. High yield bonds are subject to additional risks
such as increased risk of default and greater volatility because of the lower credit quality of the issues.
Master Limited Partnerships (MLPs) are (rolled-up) limited partnerships or limited liability companies that are taxed as partnerships and whose interests (limited partnership units or
limited liability company units) are traded on securities exchanges like shares of common stock. Currently, most MLPs operate in the energy, natural resources or real estate sectors.
Investments in MLP interests are subject to the risks generally applicable to companies in the energy and natural resources sectors, including commodity pricing risk, supply and
demand risk, depletion risk and exploration risk. Because of their narrow focus, MLPs maintain exposure to price volatility of commodities and/or underlying assets and tend to be
more volatile than investments that diversify across many sectors and companies. MLPs are also subject to additional risks including: investors having limited control and rights to vote
on matters affecting the MLP, limited access to capital, cash flow risk, lack of liquidity, dilution risk, conflict of interests, and limited call rights related to acquisitions.
REITs are subject to special risk considerations similar to those associated with the direct ownership of real estate. Real estate valuations may be subject to factors such as changing
general and local economic, financial, competitive, and environmental conditions. REITs may not be suitable for every investor.
Dividend income from REITs will generally not be treated as qualified dividend income and therefore will not be eligible for reduced rates of taxation.
S&P 500 Index is an unmanaged, market value-weighted index of 500 stocks generally representative of the broad stock market. An investment cannot
be made directly in a market index.
The MSCI World Index is a free float-adjusted market capitalization weighted index that is designed to measure the equity market performance of developed markets. As of May 30
2011, the MSCI World Index consists of the following 24 developed market country indices: Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hong
Kong, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Portugal, Singapore, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, and the United States. An investment
cannot be made directly in a market index.
Bonds are subject to interest rate risk. When interest rates rise, bond prices fall; generally the longer a bond's maturity, the more sensitive it is to this risk. Bonds may also be subject
to call risk, which is the risk that the issuer will redeem the debt at its option, fully or partially, before the scheduled maturity date. The market value of debt instruments may fluctuate,
and proceeds from sales prior to maturity may be more or less than the amount originally invested or the maturity value due to changes in market conditions or changes in the credit
quality of the issuer. Bonds are subject to the credit risk of the issuer. This is the risk that the issuer might be unable to make interest and/or principal payments on a timely basis.
Bonds are also subject to reinvestment risk, which is the risk that principal and/or interest payments from a given investment may be reinvested at a lower interest rate.
Bonds rated below investment grade may have speculative characteristics and present significant risks beyond those of other securities, including greater credit risk and price volatility
in the secondary market. Investors should be careful to consider these risks alongside their individual circumstances, objectives and risk tolerance before investing in high-yield
bonds. High yield bonds should comprise only a limited portion of a balanced portfolio.
Sample Holdings consist of the top issues in each sector within the model portfolio as of 3/31/17. These sample holdings are for informational purposes only and should not be
deemed to be a recommendation to purchase or sell the securities mentioned. There are no guarantees that any securities mentioned will be held in a client’s account. It should not be
assumed that the securities transactions or holdings discussed were or will be profitable. Data are indicative only as of the given date. Holdings will fluctuate, and no assurance can be
given that an actual portfolio will be able to obtain the same attributes.
Please see additional important information at the end of this report
The individuals mentioned as the Portfolio Management Team are Financial Advisors with Morgan Stanley participating in the Morgan Stanley Portfolio Management program. The
Portfolio Management program is an investment advisory program in which the client’s Financial Advisor invests the client’s assets on a discretionary basis in a range of securities.
The Portfolio Management program is described in the applicable Morgan Stanley ADV Part 2, available at www.morganstanley.com/ADV or from your Financial Advisor.
Past performance of any security is not a guarantee of future performance. There is no guarantee that this investment strategy will work under all market conditions.
Morgan Stanley Smith Barney LLC. Member SIPC.
Date of first use: 3/19/18