SOURCE: morgan_stanley_im/morgan_stanley_im_2021.pdf
PAGES: 12

--- PAGE 1 ---
2021 Market Outlook
2021 Global Real
Estate Outlook:
Recovery,
Re-Pricing and
Reflationary
Fundamentals
2021 will likely mark the beginning of
the next new real estate market cycle as
the pick-up in economic growth begins
to flow more broadly through to real
estate fundamentals, which will continue
to recover at different speeds by sector.
2021 will hopefully and likely be the year
of Recovery vs Recession, Vaccine vs Virus
and Reflation vs Deflation. Early cycle
investing will require discerning investors
to adopt a dual strategy that comprises
income growth opportunities that leverage
the acceleration in economic activity and
secular tailwinds, along with deeper value
opportunities that arise from expected
re-pricing due to cyclical and structural
headwinds. Given the depth and timing of
this recovery will be more uneven across
regions, cities, property types and sub
sectors, investing opportunities are going to
be more differentiated. Successful investors
will need to be able to identify the best
risk-adjusted opportunities across divergent
global markets and have the local expertise
to manage the interplay between macro
trends and local market dynamics.
REAL ASSETS | REAL ASSETS INVESTING TEAM

--- PAGE 2 ---
2021 MARKET OUTLOOK
Entering the Next Phase of the
DISPLAY 1
V-shaped Economic Recovery;
GDP Forecasts
Regional Differences Persist
Real GDP, %YOY
In 2021, the global economy will enter
the next phase of the V. According to 12
9.0
Morgan Stanley Research, global GDP
8 6.4
will return to its pre-COVID path 5.9 5.0 5.3 5.5 5.4
4.4 4.1 3.9
(i.e., what it would have been absent
4 2.4 2.4 2.3
the COVID-19 shock) by 4Q21. In
the near term, growth will continue to 0
be constrained by lockdown measures,
predominately in the U.S. and Europe, -4 -3.4 -3.5
but will likely rebound from 2Q onwards -5.2
as vaccines are rolled out to the broader -8 -7.2
population which will help drive a more
-12
-11.4
complete reopening of economies around
Global U.S. Europe U.K. Japan China
the world.
■ 2020 ■ 2021 ■ 2022
2021 global growth of 6.4% is expected
(following a contraction of 3.4% Source: Morgan Stanley Research, data as of December 28, 2020.
in 2020)1 to be driven by a global All forecasts are subject to change at any time and may not come to pass due to changes in market
synchronous recovery, with developed or economic conditions.
and emerging markets growing together
in unison for the first time since 2017,
cycles, the economic recovery in Europe the U.S., rising to 2% by the end of 2021
albeit at different speeds and trajectories.
will likely be more protracted due to the and 2.5% in 2022 vs 1.2% in 2020.3
Asia will continue to experience a
more structured and less dynamic nature Higher inflation will be driven by the
faster macro recovery due to stronger
of their underlying economies and more unprecedented amount of fiscal stimulus
government intervention during the
pronounced demographic challenges. (23% of GDP4) and monetary policy
lockdown and normalization periods and
accommodation (balance sheet expansion
accelerated demand for exports as global Different speeds of economic recovery
of $3.3T5 since March 2020). This reflation
growth returns. The U.S. is expected and divergent underlying regional growth
scenario would likely lead to accelerated
to rebound strongly due to the newly drivers will continue to impact markets
rental growth driven by increasing occupier
enacted $900B of fiscal stimulus and the and sectors differently around the world.
demand. Given the new Fed framework,
expectation that additional stimulus will
interest rates will likely only increase once
be passed under the new Administration. Low Interest Rates + Return of
inflation exceeds the 2% target for an
This, combined with renewed private Inflation = Attractive Environment
extended period of time. This suggests that
sector risk appetite and acceleration in for CRE Investing
even with higher inflation, rates may stay
consumer activity as the $1.4T in excess
As the economic recovery accelerates, low, keeping downward pressure on yields,
savings begins to be drawn-down,2 will
Morgan Stanley Research believes that leading to stronger real estate returns.
fuel the recovery. While, similar to other
inflation will pick up, predominately in
1 Morgan Stanley Research, as at December 30, 2020.
2 Ibid.
3 Morgan Stanley Research, as at December 28, 2020
4 Morgan Stanley Research, as at December 30, 2020.
5 Federal Reserve, as at December 30, 2020.
2 MORGAN STANLEY INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT | REAL ASSETS

--- PAGE 3 ---
2021 GLOBAL REAL ESTATE OUTLOOK: RECOVERY, RE-PRICING AND REFLATIONARY FUNDAMENTALS
Increased Transaction Volume
DISPLAY 2
in 2021 Despite Challenged
U.S. Core Inflation and Rent Growth
Fundamentals in Some Sectors
% Change in PCE Inflation (ex. Food & Energy) Rent Growth % (All Sectors)
Given the low interest rate environment,
the weight of capital targeting real 3.0% 6%
estate will likely continue to increase as
4%
investors search for yield. This outsized
2.5%
investor demand combined with low 2%
levels of financial distress faced by sellers
0%
and corporate occupiers has led to limited 2.0%
re-pricing so far, outside of retail and -2%
hospitality and some secondary assets
-4%
1.5%
and locations.
-6%
However, as the full impact of the record
levels of economic contraction flow 1.0% -8%
through to real estate fundamentals, it is 2001 2004 2007 2010 2013 2016 2019 2022
expected that the amount of re-pricing
PCE Inflation Rent Growth
may increase in 2021 and beyond. This
re-pricing, which will most likely be Source: Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Costar, MSREI Strategy, data as of
reflected in lower net operating income September 2020.
(NOI) due to occupier weakness, and All forecasts are subject to change at any time and may not come to pass due to changes in market
or economic conditions.
not higher yields, will be bifurcated by
region, sector and asset specifications.
The U.S., U.K. and potentially Australia Property Sector Fundamentals competing trends of increasing work
are expected to see more and quicker Remain Bifurcated from home and de-densification, but near
re-pricing given the more dynamic Across all regions, property market term weakness in absorption is apparent
nature of their economies, greater levels fundamentals have been impacted by the due to job losses in most markets. Retail
of price appreciation pre-COVID and pandemic. The industrial sector continues sector fundamentals remain challenged,
greater influence of leverage in their to exhibit the strongest performance with e-commerce, tenant bankruptcies
capital markets. Additionally, re-pricing globally, spurred by tenant demand and shifting consumer preferences all
will likely be more concentrated in retail driven by an acceleration in e-commerce accelerating due to COVID-19. These
and hotels, followed by select office and and supply chain reconfiguration. trends have and may continue to lead to
apartment assets and markets, with little Despite elevated unemployment levels, more repricing in the sector. Lastly, the
forced activity in industrial. Lastly, there residential sector fundamentals continue hotel sector faces cyclical and secular
will likely be elevated risk premiums for to be supported by supply shortages headwinds from the economic downturn
commodity assets that are functionally predominantly at affordable price and significant pullbacks in tourism
challenged or properties with operational, points, although some regulatory risk is and business travel, which will likely
leasing, or repositioning risk due to lower evident in markets where affordability is negatively impact sector fundamentals for
availability of debt financing. stretched. The outlook for office sector several years.
fundamentals remains uncertain given
REAL ASSETS | MORGAN STANLEY INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT 3

--- PAGE 4 ---
2021 MARKET OUTLOOK
Industrial
SIGNIFICANT ACCELERATION IN PRICING. LAST MILE TO TAKE SPOTLIGHT FROM BIG BOX
Operating Fundamentals
• The industrial sector continues to see more yield compression than other sectors driven by outsized investor demand given the
growth outlook
• Rent growth has not kept pace with price appreciation, particularly in several U.S. markets, where oversupply is also becoming a risk
• Higher e-commerce penetration (16-25% in the U.S. in one year) combined with tenant’s preference to focus on supply chain resiliency has
led to significant incremental demand for well-located logistics assets
• Possibility that eCommerce demand (which has comprised 50% of leasing in 2020)6 slows as consumers, once vaccinated, shift spending
from goods to services
• However retailers and distributors will likely add inventory and build out more ‘last mile’ locations, having focused most of 2020 on big box
distribution facilities (average size of a logistics lease increased by 10% in 2020)7
• Supply chains should continue to be reconfigured and become more fragmented, which will impact port cargo traffic and warehouse
demand in different locations
DISPLAY 3
Industrial Pricing has Accelerated, Rents have Lagged ex-US
3Q 2020 vs Prior Peak (%)
120
104
99 99
100
80 70 73 71
59
60 56 53
40
20 15 12
0
-20 -12
New York Los Angeles Dallas Atlanta London Paris Milan Madrid Shanghai Sydney Tokyo Singapore
U.S. Europe Asia
■ Values vs Peak: U.S. ■ Europe ■ Asia ● Rents vs Peak
Source: PMA, CoStar, data as of December 2020
Potential Investment Strategies
• Develop core product at attractive yield on cost in high growth markets
• Take leasing and repositioning risk in urban infill assets where supply is constrained
6 CBRE, September 2020.
7 Costar, MSREI Strategy, January 2021
4 MORGAN STANLEY INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT | REAL ASSETS

--- PAGE 5 ---
2021 GLOBAL REAL ESTATE OUTLOOK: RECOVERY, RE-PRICING AND REFLATIONARY FUNDAMENTALS
Residential
SIGNIFICANT BIFURCATION IN PERFORMANCE POTENTIALLY OPENS UP RE-PRICING OPPORTUNITIES
Operating Fundamentals
• Supply shortages continue to exist at more affordable price points in many global markets
• Shift in living preference to larger formats in suburban US locations
• Significant bifurcation in performance with effective rents under pressure in many urban markets, e.g., New York, San Francisco, London,
Sydney and Barcelona, while growing in suburban U.S. markets, Northern Europe and Japan
• Significant recent increase in supply, particularly in the U.S. (~7% of inventory under development in prime urban U.S. submarkets compared
to less than 3% in suburban submarkets8)
• This could lead to a slower recovery in rents in urban locations ever after the workforce begin to repopulate these urban centers
• Regulatory risk limiting rental growth where affordability is stretched
DISPLAY 4
Residential Rental Weakness in Gateway City Urban Markets
YOY Change in Residential Rents
10
5.9%
5 2.5% 3.5% 3.7%
0.8% 1.0%
0
-0.8%
-5
-5.4%
-10
-11.0%
-15 -12.7%
-14.8%
-20
-19.6%
-25
Sydney San Manhattan Central Barcelona Berlin Tokyo Atlanta Paris Munich Phoenix Helsinki
Francisco London 23W
Source: Catella, Costar, Australian Financial Review, Zoopla, Savills, MSREI Research as at December 30, 2020
Potential Investment Strategies
• Develop multifamily and single family rental product to sell into core institutional market
• Acquire existing product where investment and asset management can drive rental growth
• Recapitalize assets with impaired cash flows in select urban markets
8 Costar, Global Trends Webinar, December 2020.
REAL ASSETS | MORGAN STANLEY INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT 5

--- PAGE 6 ---
2021 MARKET OUTLOOK
Office
SIGNIFICANT BIFURCATION IN PERFORMANCE
Operating Fundamentals
• Overall, slower and weaker demand coming out of the recession and the uncertainty over potential hybrid working models may force
investors to remain selective with the sector
• Impacts will differ significantly by market and asset quality, but overall MSREI expects rent declines and repricing for office assets with near
term leasing risk, challenged specifications or in secondary locations
• Tenant and investor flight to quality should lead to outperformance for new functional and flexible office assets versus older more
physically constrained properties
• Mounting sub lease space, already-high rent levels and potentially higher costs from regulations suggests that rents and values in CBDs will
be more challenged in the near term
• Technology sector will likely lead the economic recovery across most regions. Therefore markets with a high concentration of technology
demand and knowledge workers should outperform over the medium-term.
DISPLAY 5
Higher Density Markets may be More Likely to Adopt WFH, although Cultural Differences may be more Important
Sqm per desk
30 26
25
21 20
19
20
14
15 12 12
10 9 9 8 7 7
5
0
Warsaw Berlin Paris London Shanghai Tokyo Singapore Sydney Chicago New York Boston San Francisco
Source: Green Street Advisors, PMA, CoStar, MSREI Strategy, as of June 2020
DISPLAY 6
Higher Office and Housing Cost Markets may see more WFH/ Out Migration
Office Occupancy Cost, €/sqm Capital City Housing Cost Premium, %
1795
1800 80
1600 1340 70
1400 1190 60
1200 895 1055 894 972 50
1000
40
8 60 0 0 0 377 460 565 470 513 549 30
400 20
200 10
0 0
0 13
Warsaw Berlin Madrid Stockholm Paris London Denver Dallas Chicago Wash DC Boston San Fran New York
Europe U.S.
■/■ Office Occupancy Cost (LHS) ● Housing Cost Premium (RHS)
Source: Green Street Advisors, CBRE, MSREI Strategy, as of June 2020
Potential Investment Strategies
• Reposition existing assets to meet demands of modern occupiers and core investors (e.g., ESG, health and technology)
• Acquire high quality assets with leasing risk at cyclical lows in select gateway markets
• Continue to pursue smaller, off-market investments in Japan with attractive leverage
6 MORGAN STANLEY INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT | REAL ASSETS

--- PAGE 7 ---
2021 GLOBAL REAL ESTATE OUTLOOK: RECOVERY, RE-PRICING AND REFLATIONARY FUNDAMENTALS
Hotels
SMALL WINDOW OF OPPORTUNITY TO ACQUIRE RE-PRICED ASSETS
Operating Fundamentals
• The hotel sector is undergoing significant operational challenges with the recovery of NOI back to pre-COVID levels likely to be elongated
and bifurcated based on the type of hotel and market.
• Operational challenges, coupled with the scarcity of debt financing for hotels during downturns, has historically led to significant price
declines in recessionary periods followed by significant growth in valuations as operations improve and capital markets recover
• Leisure-oriented hotels accessed by local markets expected to recover before hotels dependent on international and business travel
• Hotel operators may be able to keep cost growth subdued due to forced innovations implemented during the pandemic, therefore
supporting more robust profit growth as revenues rebound
DISPLAY 7 DISPLAY 8
Performance Bifurcation between Leisure and Group RevPAR Declines Forecasted to be More Severe Than
Travel Hotels Past Cycles
U.S. RevPAR, % Change Y/Y RevPAR Index, = 100 in 2019
20 120
0
100 100.5
-20
-40 80
73.7
-60
62.9
60
-80
-100 40
Feb-20 Mar-20 Apr-20 May-20 Jun-20 Jul-20 2019 2020 2021
Transient (Leisure) Group (Business) US Europe
pre-Covid basecase previous trend: 2000-2002
Source: STR, MSREI Strategy, as of September 2020 Source: Tourism Economics, STR, Morgan Stanley Research as of
August 2020
Potential Investment Strategies
• Acquire assets with operating challenges and impaired cash flows that are most likely to benefit from resumption of travel and increasing
consumer confidence
REAL ASSETS | MORGAN STANLEY INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT 7

--- PAGE 8 ---
2021 MARKET OUTLOOK
Retail
LONGER AND MORE UNCERTAIN ROAD TO RECOVERY
Operating Fundamentals
• Acceleration of all previous disruptive trends, including rightsizing of retailers’ footprints, tenant bankruptcies, and rising shopping center
and high street vacancies
• These forces should result in rents being reset lower resulting in a significant decline in NOI and continued re-pricing across the sector,
bifurcated by retail product type, location and quality of center
• High street retail likely to recover before shopping centers
DISPLAY 9
COVID Impacts Will Vary by Retail Product Type
MOST AFFECTED MOST PROTECTED
COMMUNITY/ STREET & URBAN NEIGHBORHOOD
MALL POWER CENTER ENVIRONMENTS CENTER
• Over-reliance on • As before COVID, health will • Prime, global high streets • Cap rate compression
midrange apparel vary significantly by asset • Longer recovery period may occur in this space
• B co a n n c k e r n u t p r t a c t ie e s d here • C (u o n m an m c u h n o i r t e y d c s e t n r t ip e r c s e nters) face • H re i s g e h t s re a n r t e s l a ik r e e l y a i r n is k k e f y a c a t r o e r a s a nd d in u s e ti t t u o t c io o n n a c l e c n a t p ra it t a io l n of
• Oversupply (particularly U.S.) high immediate-term vacancy such as Manhattan
but less medium-term distress
• Significant capital investments • Longer-term, urban areas
needed to maintain and/or • “A” Power Centers will thrive will rebound
reposition B-and-below assets (more resilient to eCommerce),
though lenders may still Urban neighborhoods
perceive big-box risk • Short-term challenges due
to high F&B and independent
retailer mix
• Longer-term growth expected
due to structural demographic
and economic shifts towards
urbanized suburbia and
secondary cities
Source: CBRE, as of September 2020
Potential Investment Strategies
• Selectively acquire core high street assets in strategic, tourism-oriented locations
• Selectively target shopping centers that include a convenience or hyper market element in markets where oversupply is less of a risk
8 MORGAN STANLEY INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT | REAL ASSETS

--- PAGE 9 ---
2021 GLOBAL REAL ESTATE OUTLOOK: RECOVERY, RE-PRICING AND REFLATIONARY FUNDAMENTALS
Healthcare
LONGER AND MORE UNCERTAIN ROAD TO RECOVERY
Operating Fundamentals
• Aging demographics and growing healthcare expenditure will be a secular tailwind for well-located healthcare real estate, predominantly
medical office buildings (MOB) and life science
• Continued shift to outpatient care and desire for health systems to find more affordable medical office locations has created a steady and
resilient level of occupancy
• Strong capital flows from venture capital, national and corporate sources continues to fuel lab research and real estate opportunities in
specific market clusters in the U.S. and U.K.
Potential Investment Strategies
• Reposition healthcare (life science/MOB) at attractive yields on cost (e.g., U.S., U.K.)
Dual Strategy of Income
DISPLAY 10
Growth and Value
Growth vs Value Opportunities Matrix
MSREI believes that investors should
focus on building a diversified portfolio
Higher
Value
that includes investments in more resilient Distress/
Opportunities
asset classes, such as logistics, healthcare Re-Pricing Retail Malls
and residential, while at the same time,
targeting value opportunities in the office, Corporate Hotels
hotel, urban residential and retail sectors,
High Street Retail
where greater levels of re-pricing are
Senior Living
expected to materialize due to cyclical and Gateway/CBD Office
secular headwinds. Additionally, investors
need to remain focused on investment
issues such as how climate change is Leisure Hotels
affecting real estate trends, market
attractiveness and property level attributes
Value
as well as broader demographic shifts,
Class A Urban Multi Growth
including aging populations and shifting
Opportunities
living preferences. Class B Multi
Growth Office
Conclusion Urban Infill Industrial
MSREI believes that the unique mix
Single Family Rental
of recovery, volatility, and performance
differentiation will present an attractive
Industrial Big Box
window for real estate investing. Globally
Life Science
diversified portfolios that balance income Lower
Data Centers
growth and value will be best positioned Distress/
to take advantage of the divergence Re-Pricing
of cyclical and secular forces across
Lower/Slower Growth/Recovery to Pre-COVID Level Higher/Quicker
countries, markets and sectors. In this
investing environment, MSREI believes ● Office ● Residential ● Retail ● Industrial ● Other asset classes
local market perspective, knowledge,
presence and relationships, combined
with the ability to actively manage assets
to drive NOI growth will be critical to
deliver attractive risk-adjusted returns.
REAL ASSETS | MORGAN STANLEY INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT 9

--- PAGE 10 ---
2021 MARKET OUTLOOK
IMPORTANT DISCLAIMERS based on assumptions believed to be reasonable in light of the information
The document has been prepared solely for information purposes and does presently available. Such assumptions (and the resulting analyses and
not constitute an offer or a recommendation to buy or sell any particular forecasts) may require modification as additional information becomes
security or to adopt any specific investment strategy. The material contained available and as economic and market developments warrant. Any such
herein has not been based on a consideration of any individual client modification could be either favorable or adverse. Nothing contained in
circumstances and is not investment advice, nor should it be construed this Presentation may be relied upon as a guarantee, promise, assurance
in any way as tax, accounting, legal or regulatory advice. To that end, or a representation as to the future.
investors should seek independent legal and financial advice, including Any index referred to herein is the intellectual property (including registered
advice as to tax consequences, before making any investment decision. trademarks) of the applicable licensor. Any product based on an index is in
The information contained herein refers to research, but does not constitute no way sponsored, endorsed, sold or promoted by the applicable licensor
an equity research report and is not from Morgan Stanley Equity Research. and it shall not have any liability with respect thereto.
Unless otherwise indicated, the views expressed are those of the research Real estate investments are subject to special risks, including interest rate
and strategy team of Morgan Stanley Real Assets and may differ from those and property value fluctuations, as well as risks related to general and
of Morgan Stanley Equity Research and other Morgan Stanley affiliates economic conditions.
(including others within Morgan Stanley Real Assets). These views may also
differ from investment strategies implemented by Morgan Stanley Real Assets Morgan Stanley, its affiliates and Morgan Stanley Financial Advisors do not
now or in the future. The information (including facts, opinions, estimates provide tax, accounting or legal advice. Individuals should consult their tax
or projections) contained herein is based on financial, economic, market advisor for matters involving taxation and tax planning and their attorney
and other conditions prevailing as of the date hereof. As such, it remains for matters involving legal matters.
subject to change at any time. By providing such information, Morgan Stanley Morgan Stanley is not responsible for the information contained on any third
Real Assets assumes no obligation to provide any update or supplement party website or your use or inability to use such site, nor do we guarantee
to such information following the date hereof. Although reasonable care its accuracy or completeness. The terms, conditions, and privacy policy on
has been taken to ensure that the information (including facts, opinions, any third party website may be different from those applicable to your use
estimates or projections) contained herein is accurate, complete and fair, of any Morgan Stanley website. The opinions expressed by the author of an
no warranty, express or implied, is made as to the accuracy, completeness article written by a third party are solely his/her own and do not necessarily
or fairness of such information. Certain economic and market information reflect those of Morgan Stanley. The information and data provided by any
contained herein may have been obtained from third parties sources. While third party website of publication is as of the date of the material when it
Morgan Stanley Real Assets believes that such sources are reliable, neither was written and is subject to change without notice.
Morgan Stanley Real Assets nor any other Morgan Stanley affiliate has
independently verified such information or assumes any responsibility or DISTRIBUTION
liability for the accuracy, completeness or fairness of such information or This communication is only intended for and will only be distributed to
any omission of information. persons resident in jurisdictions where such distribution or availability
would not be contrary to local laws or regulations.
There is no guarantee that any investment strategy will work under all
market conditions, and each investor should evaluate their ability to invest EMEA: This communication was issued and approved in the United Kingdom
for the long-term, especially during periods of downturn in the market. There by Morgan Stanley Investment Management Limited, 25 Cabot Square,
are important differences in how the strategy is carried out in each of the Canary Wharf, London E14 4QA, authorized and regulated by the Financial
investment vehicles. Your financial professional will be happy to discuss with Conduct Authority, for distribution to Professional Clients only and must
you the vehicle most appropriate for you given your investment objectives, not be relied upon or acted upon by Retail Clients (each as defined in the
risk tolerance and investment time horizon. UK Financial Conduct Authority’s rules).
The information contained herein is highly confidential. By accepting this Financial intermediaries are required to satisfy themselves that the
document, you agree that this document (including any data, analysis, information in this document is suitable for any person to whom they
conclusions or other information contained herein and all oral information, provide this document in view of that person’s circumstances and purpose.
if any, provided by Morgan Stanley Real Assets in connection herewith) Morgan Stanley Investment Management shall not be liable for, and accepts
may not be photocopied, reproduced or otherwise shared or distributed no liability for, the use or misuse of this document by any such financial
to any other persons, in whole or in part, without the prior consent of intermediary. If such a person considers an investment she/he should
Morgan Stanley Real Assets. Notwithstanding the foregoing, this document always ensure that she/he has satisfied herself/himself that she/he has
and information may be provided to (a) your legal, tax, financial and other been properly advised by that financial intermediary about the suitability
advisors who agree to maintain this document in confidence and (b) a of an investment.
government official to the extent necessary to comply with a judicial or United Kingdom: Morgan Stanley Investment Management Limited is
governmental order. authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority. Registered
Except as otherwise indicated herein, the views and opinions expressed in England. Registered No. 1981121. Registered Office: 25 Cabot Square,
herein are those of Morgan Stanley Real Assets, are based on matters Canary Wharf, London E14 4QA, authorised and regulated by the Financial
as they exist as of the date of preparation and not as of any future date, Conduct Authority. Dubai: Morgan Stanley Investment Management
and will not be updated or otherwise revised to reflect information that Limited (Representative Office, Unit Precinct 3-7th Floor-Unit 701 and
subsequently becomes available or circumstances existing, or changes 702, Level 7, Gate Precinct Building 3, Dubai International Financial Centre,
occurring, after the date hereof. Dubai, 506501, United Arab Emirates. Telephone: +97 (0)14 709 7158).
Germany: Morgan Stanley Investment Management Limited Niederlassung
Historical information is not indicative of future results, and the historical Deutschland Junghofstrasse 13-15 60311 Frankfurt Deutschland (Gattung:
information in this Presentation should not be viewed as an indicator of Zweigniederlassung (FDI) gem. § 53b KWG). Italy: Morgan Stanley Investment
any future performance that may be achieved as a result of implementing Management Limited, Milan Branch (Sede Secondaria di Milano) is a branch
an investment strategy substantially identical or similar to that described of Morgan Stanley Investment Management Limited, a company registered in
in this Presentation the UK, authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA),
Certain information contained in this Presentation constitutes “forward- and whose registered office is at 25 Cabot Square, Canary Wharf, London, E14
looking statements,” which can be identified by the use of forward-looking 4QA. Morgan Stanley Investment Management Limited Milan Branch (Sede
terminology such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “target,” Secondaria di Milano) with seat in Palazzo Serbelloni Corso Venezia, 16 20121
“estimate,” “intend,” “continue,” or “believe,” or the negatives thereof or Milano, Italy, is registered in Italy with company number and VAT number
other variations thereon or comparable terminology. Due to various risks 08829360968. The Netherlands: Morgan Stanley Investment Management,
and uncertainties, actual events or results or the actual performance may Rembrandt Tower, 11th Floor Amstelplein 1 1096HA, Netherlands. Telephone:
differ materially from those reflected or contemplated in such forward- 31 2-0462-1300. Morgan Stanley Investment Management is a branch
looking statements. Prospective investors should pay close attention to office of Morgan Stanley Investment Management Limited. Morgan Stanley
the assumptions underlying the analyses and forecasts contained in this Investment Management Limited is authorised and regulated by the Financial
Presentation. The analyses and forecasts contained in this Presentation are Conduct Authority in the United Kingdom. Switzerland: Morgan Stanley
10 MORGAN STANLEY INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT | REAL ASSETS

--- PAGE 11 ---
2021 GLOBAL REAL ESTATE OUTLOOK: RECOVERY, RE-PRICING AND REFLATIONARY FUNDAMENTALS
& Co. International plc, London, Zurich Branch Authorised and regulated This publication, and any access to it, is intended only for “wholesale clients”
by the Eidgenössische Finanzmarktaufsicht (“FINMA”). Registered with within the meaning of the Australian Corporations Act.
the Register of Commerce Zurich CHE-115.415.770. Registered Office: Saudi Arabia. This document is not and does not purport to be any of the
Beethovenstrasse 33, 8002 Zurich, Switzerland, Telephone +41 (0) 44 588 following: (a) a marketing communication, (b) a securities advertisement,
1000. Facsimile Fax: +41(0) 44 588 1074. This communication is only for (c) a financial promotion. Material contained herein has not been based on
Regulated Qualified Investors. a consideration of any individual client circumstances and is not investment
In addition, real estate investments are subject to a variety of risks, including advice, nor should it be construed in any way as tax, accounting, legal or
those related to, among other things, the economic climate, both nationally regulatory advice. To that end, recipients or viewers of this document
and locally, the financial condition of tenants and environmental regulations. should seek independent legal and financial advice, including advice as to tax
Hong Kong: This document has been issued by Morgan Stanley Asia Limited consequences, before making any investment decision. This document may
for use in Hong Kong and shall only be made available to “professional not be distributed in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia except to such persons
investors” as defined under the Securities and Futures Ordinance of Hong as are permitted under the Rules of Offering Securities and Continuing
Kong (Cap 571). The contents of this document have not been reviewed Obligations and the Securities Business Regulations issued by the Capital
nor approved by any regulatory authority including the Securities and Market Authority. The disclosure of this presentation is restricted to
Futures Commission in Hong Kong. Accordingly, save where an exemption sophisticated investors.
is available under the relevant law, this document shall not be issued, The Capital Market Authority does not make any representation as to the
circulated, distributed, directed at, or made available to, the public in Hong accuracy or completeness of this document, and expressly disclaims any
Kong. Singapore: This document should not be considered to be the subject liability whatsoever for any loss arising from, or incurred in reliance upon,
of an invitation for subscription or purchase, whether directly or indirectly, any part of this document. Prospective purchasers should conduct their
to the public or any member of the public in Singapore other than (i) to own due diligence on the accuracy of the information in this presentation.
an institutional investor under section 304 of the Securities and Futures If you do not understand the contents of this document you should consult
Act, Chapter 289 of Singapore (“SFA”), (ii) to a “relevant person” (which an authorized financial adviser.
includes an accredited investor) pursuant to section 305 of the SFA, and AS A DIVERSIFIED GLOBAL FINANCIAL SERVICES FIRM, MORGAN STANLEY
such distribution is in accordance with the conditions specified in section ENGAGES IN A BROAD SPECTRUM OF ACTIVITIES INCLUDING FINANCIAL
305 of the SFA; or (iii) otherwise pursuant to, and in accordance with the ADVISORY SERVICES, INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT ACTIVITIES, LENDING,
conditions of, any other applicable provision of the SFA. In particular, for COMMERCIAL BANKING, SPONSORING AND MANAGING PRIVATE
investment funds that are not authorized or recognized by the MAS, units INVESTMENT FUNDS, ENGAGING IN BROKER-DEALER TRANSACTIONS
in such funds are not allowed to be offered to the retail public; any written AND PRINCIPAL SECURITIES, COMMODITIES AND FOREIGN EXCHANGE
material issued to persons as aforementioned in connection with an offer is TRANSACTIONS, RESEARCH PUBLICATION AND OTHER ACTIVITIES. IN THE
not a prospectus as defined in the SFA and, accordingly, statutory liability ORDINARY COURSE OF ITS BUSINESS, MORGAN STANLEY PERFORMS
under the SFA in relation to the content of prospectuses does not apply, FULL-SERVICE INVESTMENT BANKING AND FINANCIAL SERVICES AND
and investors should consider carefully whether the investment is suitable THEREFORE ENGAGES IN ACTIVITIES WHERE MORGAN STANLEY’S
for them. This material has not been reviewed by the Monetary Authority INTERESTS OR THE INTERESTS OF ITS CLIENTS MAY CONFLICT WITH
of Singapore. Australia: This publication is disseminated in Australia by THE INTERESTS OF THE INVESTORS. ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
Morgan Stanley Investment Management (Australia) Pty Limited ACN: HEREIN IS PROPRIETARY AND IS PROTECTED UNDER COPYRIGHT LAW.
122040037, AFSL No. 314182, which accept responsibility for its contents.
REAL ASSETS | MORGAN STANLEY INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT 11

--- PAGE 12 ---
Explore our site at www.morganstanley.com/im
© 2021 Morgan Stanley. All rights reserved. 9958565_KC_0121 CRC 3408286 Exp. 01/19/2022