Key Takeaways
2024 is going to be a year of really getting back to basics, really looking at a lot of individual company and sector fundamentals and getting away from a lot of those macroeconomic and behavioral catalysts that we had seen over the past couple of years.
We do expect that the rate of economic growth will slow not only here in the fourth quarter at the end of last year, but for the next three quarters all the way until the third quarter of this year before then starting to reaccelerate.
While the stock market itself may be broadly at fair value, we still see a lot of opportunities in individual stocks.
We expect the Fed to cut starting this year and proceed aggressively over the course of this year heading into 2025, wrapping up cuts by 2026. And that lower federal-funds rate will drive the 10-year Treasury yield ultimately down to our long-term projection of 2.75% down from current levels of 4%.
On the GDP growth front, we're pretty close to consensus in the near term, although on a five-year time horizon we do expect a cumulative 3% more real GDP growth than consensus, owing to principally our views on the supply side of the economy in terms of labor force expansion and also productivity growth.
Inflation has fallen back greatly, and by 2024, we expect inflation to come back to the Fed's 2% target.
Our projection is that core PCE will hit 2% year over year by the second quarter of this year.

Susan Dziubinski: Hello, and welcome to Morningstar's first-quarter 2024 U.S. stock market outlook. My name is Susan Dziubinski, and I'm an investment specialist with Morningstar.com. The U.S. stock market finished 2023 on a high note as the rally in stocks broadened and long-term interest rates pulled back after signs that the Federal Reserve was finished raising interest rates. So, what should investors have on their radars for 2024? Here today to share their outlooks for the market and the economy are Dave Sekera, chief U.S. market strategist for Morningstar Research Services, and Preston Caldwell, chief U.S. economist with Morningstar Research Services. So, let's begin.

Dave, over to you.

2024 U.S. Stock Market Outlook
David Sekera: Good afternoon, everybody, and thank you for joining us for our 2024 market outlook. So, before I actually get into the slide deck, I just want to quickly address what a return to normal means for stocks and why I titled that for our 2024 outlook. So, in my opinion, I think 2024 is really the first year after the pandemic that we're going to be past all of the initial disruptions and then all of the dislocations caused by those disruptions from the pandemic. And I think about it really in two waves.

So, the first wave was in 2020 and 2021. So initially we had everybody or at least all the office workers such as myself moving to a work-from-home environment. We had a lot of shut-ins. People were afraid to go back out in public. We saw a huge shift in consumer behavior and especially consumer spending. Spending shifted away from services and into goods. And then we had some of the largest monetary and fiscal stimulus programs in history.

The second wave then ended up being in 2022 and 2023. We saw a lot of those now turn into a lot of dislocations in the market and especially in the economy. So, for example, we had all the supply chain bottlenecks. We had shortages, especially in semiconductor chips. We had inflation really start ratcheting much higher. And then the Fed, after falling behind in the inflation flight, had to then catch up and start raising interest rates very quickly.

And so now when I'm thinking about 2024 and what we expect going forward, we're seeing a lot of those now really starting to subside. For example, with the Federal Reserve, monetary policy has been on pause. And in fact, we think they're going to take the foot off the break and start easing monetary policy and getting back to more of a normalized environment. A lot of those supply chain disruptions have now eased. The shortages have also eased. So, I think 2024 is going to be a year of really getting back to basics, really looking at a lot of individual company and sector fundamentals and getting away from a lot of those macroeconomic and behavioral catalysts that we had seen over the past couple of years.

U.S. Equity Market Valuations
Here's where we are today. As Susan mentioned, in the fourth quarter, it actually started off on the back foot. In October, interest rates were rising. The 10-year was getting dangerously close to hitting 5%. Stock market was selling off, especially those sectors that were most correlated to interest rates. But the market hit a bottom at the end of October. We saw the Santa Claus rally, which typically comes in December, come early in November. We started seeing interest rates moving back down. We started seeing the stock market move back up. And then in December, that rally continued after the Fed meeting. So, market really interpreted a lot of the commentary by Federal Reserve Chair Powell, really not only indicating that we're at the point now that the Fed has not only paused but is probably starting to look and think about when it's going to start easing. So, at this point, as much as the market has rallied, we're now back to fair value. So, our price/fair value metric, it was at 1 at Dec. 21. So, what that indicates is when we look at all of those stocks that we cover, it's over 700 stocks that trade on U.S. exchanges, and we compare our valuations of the market cap of those stocks versus our intrinsic valuation, we're trading right at fair value.

Which Stocks Are Undervalued?
Now, the good part is, for long-term investors, we still do see undervalued opportunities in the marketplace today. So, when we break it down by the Morningstar Style Box, I would note that value stocks are still trading at a pretty respectable discount from fair value, trading at about a 10% discount, whereas core stocks and growth stocks trading slightly above fair value at this point. And then when we break it down by capitalization, small-cap stocks are still undervalued. We still see a lot of opportunities for investors in that space, and then also would note that mid-cap stocks are also slightly undervalued, whereas large-cap stocks with as much as they've rallied over the past year, starting to move slightly into overvalued territory.

So as far as allocations today, in my view, based on these valuations, I do think investors should still be overweight that value category, probably slightly underweight core and growth, probably more underweight core, in order to be able to pay for that overweight in the value category. And by capitalization, I also think you can probably be slightly underweight that large category in order to overweight the small-cap category and a slight overweight in that mid-cap category as well.

Near-Term Market Risks and Earnings Season
Now, as far as near-term risks to the market, I am watching. We do have earnings starting up at the end of this week with the big banks and then we'll see how they continue over the course of the month and into February and March. I am concerned that we could see management teams maybe look to lower the bar as far as guidance for the first quarter and for all of 2024. As we'll talk about, we do expect that the rate of economic growth will slow not only here in the fourth quarter at the end of last year, but for the next three quarters all the way until the third quarter of this year before then starting to reaccelerate. I do think a lot of teams might try and use this opportunity to lower that guidance expectation in the marketplace. And of course, that could drive some negative market sentiment here in the near term. However, if that does occur, that's probably actually going to be a good buying opportunity and maybe even move into an overweight position in equities just depending on how far the market could potentially sell off.

The Magnificent Seven
Getting back to the Magnificent Seven, just want to identify how much these stocks and how much they went up over the course of the year and, of course, because of their index weightings really skewed that overall market return. For the first half of the year when we did an attribution analysis, 75% of the total market return was just from these stocks alone. But we are starting to see them run out of steam. When we take a look at the valuations for those stocks, at the beginning of the year, six of seven were either rated 4 or 5 stars, meaning that we thought they were significantly undervalued. At this point, only Alphabet, the parent of Google, is still undervalued as a 4-star-rated stock. And in fact, we also think Apple has run too far to the upside. That's not a 2-star-rated stock; the other stocks now being rated 3 stars. So, looking forward, we're looking for mostly market performance for most of these stocks, still a little bit of upside left in Alphabet and Apple might be actually a good time to be looking to take some profit in that stock today. So again, I do not suspect that these stocks really are going to drive the market anywhere near this year as what we've seen last year.

Inflation in 2024
Inflation. Inflation is probably going to be our biggest out of consensus call, I think, compared to the rest of the marketplace. Preston will go into this in great depth in his section here as far as how he's looking at inflation. But I think the takeaway here is just to look at we are expecting inflation on average to be about 2% over the course of this year. We think inflation not only will continue to moderate this year but continue to keep falling into 2025 as well, getting below the Fed's 2% target.

2024 U.S. Economic Outlook
Preston Caldwell: Thanks, Dave. Good morning, everyone. So, jumping right in, it was widely expected that the Fed's rate hikes, the largest in 40 years, would slow GDP growth in 2023 with a majority of economists even expecting recession. Obviously, that hasn't panned out. While rate hikes have hit housing and a few other pieces of the economy, overall GDP growth has remained resilient owing to several factors, including free spending consumers and also a manufacturing building boom and some other factors I'll talk about. Yet, despite resilient GDP growth in 2023, we still believe that the impact of higher interest rates has yet to fully play out. So, insofar as Fed policy remains somewhat restrictive throughout 2024 as a whole, even as they start to ease on interest rates, we do expect growth to slow in 2024 before bouncing back sequentially in 2025.

On the inflation front, after inflation in 2022 reached its highest levels in 40 years with supply constraints combining with excess demand to drive up prices, inflation has fallen dramatically in 2023 because those selfsame supply constraints have alleviated and also the Fed's rate hikes have moderated demand somewhat. So, as a result, inflation has fallen back greatly, and by 2024, we expect inflation to come back to the Fed's 2% target.

Comparing our views to consensus: On the GDP growth front, we're pretty close to consensus in the near term, although on a five-year time horizon, we do expect a cumulative 3% more real GDP growth than consensus, owing to principally our views on the supply side of the economy in terms of labor force expansion and also productivity growth. And on inflation, you can see that consensus is eventually expecting inflation return to that normal of 2%, but we're expecting it to happen even faster and even dip below the Fed's 2% inflation target a bit over 2025 to 2027.

Interest Rates in 2024
Our views on interest rates here: This chart shows annual averages for key U.S. interest rates. And as I mentioned, we expect the Fed to cut starting this year and proceed aggressively over the course of this year heading into 2025, wrapping up cuts by 2026. And that lower federal-funds rate will drive the 10-year Treasury yield ultimately down to our long-term projection of 2.75%, down from current levels of 4.0%. And of course, we were as high as 5.0% just a couple months ago. That will be needed to drive lower borrowing costs throughout the economy, including a fall in the 30-year mortgage rate, which we expect to ultimately fall to 4.25%, just a bit above prepandemic levels.

GDP Growth Outlook
So, zooming in on the near term: In the third quarter, we saw GDP growth surge to 4.9%. Now there were several temporary factors at play. We saw inventories contribute 130 basis points, which is very large and obviously won't repeat next quarter. Government spending also contributed 100 basis points to growth. In the fourth quarter, we expect 1.7% real GDP growth quarter over quarter. The Atlanta Fed's GDP now is at 2.2%. Consensus is about 1.1%. So, growth should normalize in the fourth quarter. And then, in 2024, we expect growth to slow. Not only will the factors that I mentioned propelling GDP growth in 2023 subside, but also I expect consumers to get more conservative in the effects of high interest rates to play out in a variety of arenas.

Labor Market Performance and Forecast
Turning to our labor market forecast: The slowdown in GDP growth that we're expecting for 2024 will generate a modest uptick in unemployment averaging 4.2% that year and also in 2025. We think unemployment will peak at about 4.5% in the fourth quarter of 2024. So that is quite mild compared to historical increases in the unemployment rate. It's not surprising given that we don't expect a recession to happen. However, insofar as unemployment does remain slightly elevated in 2025, that will be one reason that the Fed will continue to cut in 2025 in our view even as GDP growth starts to reaccelerate again.

Will the Fed Cut Interest Rates in 2024?
So, on inflation, we saw the CPI at 3.1% year over year. In November, that's down precipitously from 8.9% at its peak in June of 2022. Much of that decline has been driven by energy. But we're also now starting to see substantial progress on core inflation. So, we saw core CPI inflation at 3.4% annualized in the last three months. Actually, core PCE inflation was just 2.2%. And actually, core PCE was just 1.9% annualized in the last six months. So, really, we're getting quite close to being able to declare victory on the inflation front from that perspective. And our projection is that core PCE will hit 2% year over year by the second quarter of this year.

More on our inflation forecast: We're expecting durable goods deflation to continue over the next several years as this impact of normalization of supply chains plays out. Housing inflation, which has remained high this year, we expect to normalize next year and further in 2025.

We're expecting our first cut in March, which is now the market consensus. We've expected this March cut for quite some time. And now just recently within the last month or so, the market has come around to our point of view. We expect one skip in May, but then cuts in June and every other meeting through the end of this year. In the near term, our views are expecting a 3.75% to 4.00% target range at the end of 2024. But there is still a divergence between our view and the market going into 2025, where in our view, inflation remaining still below the Fed's 2% target and unemployment being slightly elevated will cause the Fed to continue to cut throughout 2025 and eventually push rates essentially back down to prepandemic levels.

Year-Over-Year Real GDP Growth Versus Inflation
Our base case is a soft landing. Our forecast puts us into soft landing territory, which entails positive real GDP growth, even while inflation goes back to the 2% target, and we're expecting that to unfold over 2024 and 2025.

Fixed-Income Outlook
Returns last year, much more normal than what we've seen after the worst bond market ever in 2022. We did note that we were starting to recommend moving to a longer duration profile in fixed income. We still believe that being in the longer duration is probably the right part of the curve to go. A lot of the reasoning behind that is that we do expect interest rates will deaccelerate, come down this year and into 2025 and 2026.

Corporate Bond Market
Really not all that enthused about corporate bonds. I think it's probably a neutral, at best, at this point. Investment grade has tightened 18 basis points. We're sub-100 spread in investment-grade today. High yield, 338 as of Dec. 21. Again, I think you're getting paid an adequate amount based on our economic outlook, but I don't think you're getting any excess return at this point.