Publication date: March 30, 2021

We Believe
We forecast a strong global recovery in 2021 amid significant fiscal support, accommodative monetary policy, diminishing lockdowns, and accelerating vaccinations.
Despite an expected temporary bump in inflation in the coming months, we believe inflation generally will remain below central bank targets over the next one to two years. However, markets may remain focused on inflation risks in the near term, contributing to elevated volatility.
In this uncertain environment, we seek to maintain portfolio flexibility and liquidity to be able to respond to events as they unfold.
We see opportunities in COVID-recovery sectors, including housing, industrial/aerospace, and select banks and financials. We favor non-agency U.S. mortgages and select other global structured products. We favor curve-steepening positions in several developed market sovereigns, and we expect to maintain an overweight to equities in asset allocation portfolios.
Investors should be prepared for an inflation "head fake" and look to maintain portfolio flexibility and liquidity to be able to respond to events in what is likely to be a difficult and volatile investment environment.

These are two of the key takeaways from our latest Cyclical Forum and strategy meetings, in virtual format again but bringing together the whole of PIMCO's global team of investment professionals. Our economic teams laid out the baseline forecast for a strong recovery across the world and inflation that – in spite of all the reflationary talk – we think is likely to remain below central bank targets over the next one to two years, notwithstanding a temporary spike over the next several months (which could cause a "head fake" in markets). We will lay out that baseline and the risks around it below.

But, those forecasts aside, our forum discussion often returned to the potential for financial markets to maintain focus on inflation risks, at a time when central banks globally have pledged to go very slow and when fiscal policy, this year at least, should boost growth – with a very big boost indeed in the U.S.

We have seen a sharp rise in bond yields, albeit from low levels, and a rise in volatility. The front ends of yield curves have tested, a little at least, the thesis that central bankers will hold their nerve and stick to their long-term patient planning. It is quite likely in our forecasts that the coming near-term rise in inflation won't be sustained. But it also seems quite likely that financial markets will continue to remain focused on upside inflation risks in the near term and that volatility will continue to be elevated, compared with recent history at least.

Investment conclusions: Flexibility and liquidity
In this environment, with the potential for ongoing volatility, we seek to maintain flexibility in our portfolio positioning to be able to respond to events as they unfold. This includes careful scaling of positions, very careful liquidity management, and – in some cases – staying close to benchmark weights for now as we look to be better able to take advantage of compelling opportunities later. Given current valuations, we see little cost in going "up in liquidity," and a patient approach now should allow us to be aggressive in seizing the good opportunities that are likely to arise in a more volatile environment.

Duration
We expect to be fairly close to home in terms of duration, with interest rates at more reasonable levels after the recent market moves. Based on a 1% to 2% range for the U.S. 10-year Treasury bond yield, we expect to move further into the higher end of the range in the near term. But, while markets will continue to speculate about the extent of central banks' resolve, and we certainly have the environment for possible overshooting relative to fundamentals, we do not expect any big shift in global yields as we leave the COVID period behind compared with the levels that were prevailing before the COVID shock. We believe that bonds continue to serve as both a store of value and a potent hedge for risk assets in terms of overall asset allocation.

Credit
We expect to continue to have overweights overall in spread sectors. In our view, U.S. non-agency mortgage-backed securities (MBS) and some other global structured products, including U.K. residential MBS, offer good valuations versus generic cash corporate bonds as well as good defensive qualities, as was demonstrated by their overall resilience during the pandemic-induced market shock in 2020.

In corporate credit, we see the valuation and liquidity offered by credit default swap indices as attractive versus cash corporate bonds in most cases. We see attractive opportunities in COVID-recovery sectors, housing, industrial/aerospace, and select banks and financials, and we will likely maintain a focus on these opportunities in credit-focused strategies. We also expect private credit strategies to benefit from an environment in which long-term investors who can tolerate the elevated risks can look to extract attractive liquidity premiums.

Currencies and emerging markets
While the current period of heightened volatility will tend to counsel for lower exposure to currency trades, our baseline view is that the combination of strong growth across countries and the U.S. Fed's commitment to be very slow in raising short-term interest rates should be consistent with further modest U.S. dollar depreciation over time. In our portfolios, this may suggest some exposure to high-quality emerging market (EM) currencies, but overall we expect to be quite cautious on tactical exposures to EM assets during a period where higher volatility may continue to weigh on EM assets.

Equities
In asset allocation portfolios, we expect to maintain an overweight to equities, with a preference for cyclical over defensive stocks. In spite of recent volatility, company fundamentals remain generally sound, as indicated by the most recent earnings season and corporate earnings guidance. Sector and security selection remain critical and we favor securities exposed to fiscal stimulus, the cyclical recovery, and secular disruptions in technology. We also continue to favor equity markets in the U.S. and Asia, regions that appear likely to emerge from the pandemic earlier and should benefit from fiscal support measures.

Commodities
We see modest upside for commodities, driven by accelerating global growth, investment in infrastructure, and generally tight levels of current inventories. However, we expect aggregate price gains to be limited. We do not believe that we are at the start of a new commodity supercycle because we do not see broad tightness across the majority of markets.

Economic outlook: Up, up, up
Global growth now looks set to rebound even more strongly in 2021 than we'd anticipated in our January Cyclical Outlook. Governments have stepped up fiscal support significantly since then, and the accelerating vaccine rollout should permit a ramping-up of economic activity in COVID-constrained service sectors over the next couple of quarters.

As a consequence, following a 3.5% contraction in 2020, we now forecast world GDP growth (at current exchange rates) in excess of 6% in 2021, up from 5% previously. In our 2021 forecasts, growth in China is likely to exceed 8%, the U.S. won't be far behind at 7% plus, and even relative growth laggards like the euro area and Japan should achieve above-trend growth of some 4% and 3%, respectively. Our tentative forecasts for 2022 envisage growth that is still above trend but moderating, reflecting a further normalization of the global health situation, monetary policies that remain broadly supportive, but a waning or even negative fiscal impulse in many countries as emergency support measures expire and tax increases come into play.

A bumpy inflation path...
In our baseline outlook, consumer price inflation – both headline and, to a lesser extent, core – will be on a bumpy path this year across countries. This may lead to gyrations in longer-term inflation expectations and, as discussed earlier, a potential inflation head fake in bond markets.

Over the next several months, a combination of base effects, recent increases in energy prices, and price adjustments in sectors where activity ramps up is likely to push year-over-year inflation rates significantly higher. However, we forecast that much of this rise will reverse later this year as full employment remains elusive despite the expected strong labor market recovery. Overall, our baseline foresees core inflation remaining below central banks' targets in all major developed economies in 2021 and 2022.

Central banks likely to stay the course
Regarding monetary policy, with "substantial progress" toward its employment and inflation goals likely in the course of 2021, we expect the Fed to initiate a gradual tapering of its asset purchases late this year or early next year. In order to avoid another taper tantrum, this move is likely to be signaled well in advance and accompanied by reassurances that rate hikes are not on the horizon until well after the end of tapering.

While markets are currently priced for an initial Fed rate hike in early 2023, the Fed's new framework of aiming at inclusive maximum employment and average inflation of 2% suggests to us a later timing, based on our forecasts. Our view is in line with the latest guidance from the March 2021 Fed meeting, where the majority of participants continued to project unchanged rates until 2024.

Regional forecast snapshots

United States: We expect U.S. real GDP growth to exceed 7% in 2021, as massive fiscal stimulus combines with an improved public health situation to create a surge in economic activity. Though off a low base, this would be the fastest pace of U.S. real GDP growth since 1984. The additional COVID-19-focused fiscal stimulus that passed in December and March amounts to nearly $3 trillion and is estimated to contribute 2.5–3 percentage points to 2021 real growth. We expect growth to decelerate meaningfully in 2022 to 3%, but remain above trend, as the sharp decline in the fiscal impulse is offset by continued reopening and recovery.

We continue to see core consumer price index (CPI) inflation ending 2021 around 1.7% year-over-year and accelerating only gradually to 2.2% y/y by year-end 2022. We expect the Fed to slowly reduce the level of monetary policy accommodation by tapering asset purchases in late 2021 or early 2022.

We expect a 1% to 2% range for the U.S. 10-year Treasury bond yield, moving further into the higher end of the range in the near term.

Euro area: We see euro area activity reaching its pre-crisis level in the first half of 2022, and we forecast GDP growth above 4% in 2021 and nearly 5% in 2022. We see core inflation averaging below 1% in both 2021 and 2022.

United Kingdom: We see U.K. GDP returning to its pre-pandemic level in the first half of 2022, with GDP growth of around 5% in 2021 and 6% in 2022. We expect core inflation to average 1.3% in 2021 and 1.9% in 2022.

Japan: We expect Japan's GDP to grow 3% in 2021 mainly due to large fiscal stimulus (around 4% of GDP) and private domestic demand gradually normalizing. We expect Japan's headline CPI to remain below 0% in 2021. The BOJ 10-year JGB band is at 0% +/- 0.25% range.

China: We expect GDP growth in China to rebound to above 8% in 2021 from last year's low base, with consumption taking the lead. We forecast headline CPI inflation likely will remain subdued and average 1%–2% during 2021. Going into 2022, we expect growth returned to trend at 5%–6% y/y.

Emerging markets: We forecast BRIM growth of 6.6% in 2021 and 4.0% in 2022. We expect BRIM inflation to rise in 2021 to 4.7% y/y.