Global and thematic equities
Alex Tedder:

Beneath the surface of some respectable returns for global equities in 2023, with the MSCI World so far up 9.1% in USD terms, the picture is anything but benign.

A confluence of factors, associated with what we've called the 3D Reset, is driving a regime shift of major proportions. Structural challenges that were already apparent before the pandemic are becoming acute.

In 2024 uncertainties will persist and equity markets are likely to remain volatile. As always, however, the old adage that "there is always a bull market somewhere" may prove accurate. In fact, we think there are a number of areas that may prove highly profitable for global equity investors next year.

The 3D Reset and the end of the free money era
Perhaps the most striking feature of financial markets in the last decade was the steady decline in the cost of risk. With post-Global Financial Crisis (GFC) central bank policy driving down interest rates to zero, the effect on asset prices was dramatic; they went up, a lot.

Then came the pandemic, closely followed by the war in Ukraine, events which served to crystallise pressures that had been building for some time.

There are many different factors at play, but we think they can be usefully grouped into three categories, namely 1) Demographic constraints; 2) Decarbonisation imperatives; and 3) Deglobalisation initiatives. Together, they form what we've called the 3D Reset.

Combined with high sovereign debt levels, these factors have created supply bottlenecks, driven up wage costs, boosted general price inflation, and underpinned populist politics. Central banks have been forced to act decisively. Interest rates have been raised dramatically and look set to stay that way for some time. No wonder financial markets are jittery.

Time to do the opposite of what you did in the last decade
Hindsight is always 20/20. Looking back over the 10 years to 2021, there were only a few things that investors needed to have done: buy equities; invest in growth (especially technology); invest mainly in the US; not worry about valuations; lever up (finance with debt).

Anyone following this approach would have done superbly well, and many investors did.

But the 3D Reset is now ongoing and the implications for investors are substantial across most asset classes. Most obviously, cash is no longer trash: money in the bank can get you respectable returns.

For equity investors a change in mindset is needed. This involves:
- more diversification across regions (less US, more of the rest of the world)
- more focus on the implications of structural change
- renewed attention to valuation, quality, and risk.

Look beyond the US; particularly to unloved markets like Japan and the UK
As Warren Buffett regularly reminds us, it's tough to bet against the S&P500. Since the end of 2010 the S&P has delivered, in US dollar terms, a cumulative return of 340% compared to 95% for European equities and just 20% from emerging markets. China has delivered a negative return over that period.

The US corporate sector remains, in aggregate, better managed and more innovative than pretty much any other. It has a unique constellation. High growth areas such as technology, communications, or healthcare account for a far higher proportion of the index than in other regions. The IT sector, for example, now accounts for 28% of the S&P500 compared to just 6% in Europe.

On the basis of the above it is likely that the S&P will continue to trade at a premium to other markets. However, it is notable that the valuation gap between the US and the rest of the world is now at extreme levels. To put this into context, the market capitalisation of the "Super-7" group (responsible for most of the return from global equities this year) is now greater than that of the UK, France, China, and Japan combined. Historically, while such polarisation has often persisted for long periods, inevitably at some point the gap closes.

To be clear: we aren't negative on the US market. Stripping out the Super-7 and other high growth names, the S&P500 is trading only slightly above its long-term average. Indeed, small- and mid-cap US stocks look compellingly valued in many cases.

And in the case of the Super-7 (Apple, Microsoft, Amazon, Alphabet, Meta, Nvidia and Tesla), although they may not have as far to run as before, they remain unique franchises with powerful and highly profitable business models. They aren't going away anytime soon.

Incrementally though, after years of disappointing returns, now is probably a good time to look at unloved markets such as Japan and the UK.

Japan's market has been a laggard since its asset price bubble burst in 1992, with catastrophic consequences for the economy. After two decades without inflation and a currency that has depreciated 50% against the US dollar, the Japanese economy is now highly competitive.

Long perceived as a "legacy" stockmarket due to the relatively high concentration of traditional industries such as energy, mining, consumer staples, and banking, the UK has steadily under-performed the world index over the last 20 years. Yet scratch the surface and the UK has much to offer. Most significantly, the UK market trades at a material discount, both to the rest of the world and to its own history. With the FTSE All-Share valued at just ten times next year's earnings and with a dividend yield over 4%, the market looks compelling.

Think about long-term, structural themes
It is striking that so far in 2023 the MSCI Global Alternative Energy Index is down 40%. Investor sentiment has been hit by a combination of poor results and a political backlash against environmental initiatives. And yet, even the most hardened eco-sceptic would struggle to deny that extreme climate effects are becoming ever more apparent. The case for decarbonisation is over-whelming. Given that many of the post-pandemic cost pressures and over-capacity in parts of the renewable energy space have now been worked through, now would seem to be an excellent time for investors to consider the energy transition theme.

AI has captured the imagination of investors and of course there is a substantial risk of it getting over-hyped. Nevertheless, the logic behind the market's excitement is irrefutable. PWC put the potential economic value of AI at $17 trillion annually by 2030. Compared to current global GDP of around $110 trillion that is an extraordinary sum.

Global emerging market equities:
Tom Wilson:

Emerging markets (EM) enjoyed a turbo-charged period of growth during the 2000s, led by China. However, the following decade has been a disappointment. Persistent US dollar appreciation has dragged on EM financial conditions and nominal growth.

Don't write off China
China faces slower growth in the coming decade. Its economy needs to transition away from an investment-led growth model. Debt levels are high and demographic trends are an increasing drag. Geopolitical tension with the US is adding to the economic headwinds. However, China is an $18 trillion economy with a very large domestic market and the scale to support its own industrial policy.

Demographics among drivers of India's inexorable rise
India is the counterpoint to China. Having been outstripped by China over the past 40 years, maybe it is now India's turn in the sun. India is coming off a low base. Urbanisation is low and represents a significant medium-term productivity opportunity. Demographics are supportive, and labour is abundant and cheap.

Cyclical opportunities: China, Brazil and technology
Sentiment in China is currently very negative. However, this is now reflected in cheap valuations and positioning has adjusted markedly. The government has the policy flexibility to support growth.

In Brazil interest rates are currently 12.25%, while inflation in 2024 is expected to be below 4%. The central bank is expected to continue to cut rates.

The fourth D: the US dollar
The dollar now looks richly valued, while the US carries significant fiscal and current account deficits. A slowing economy which triggered monetary easing and an easing in the yield curve would potentially soften the dollar, which would improve financial conditions in emerging countries.

Fixed income outlook:
No investors have felt the economic regime shift of the past three years more keenly than those in fixed income markets. Returns have been sobering; US Treasuries have posted their worst loss since the fledgling United States ratified its constitution in 1787. However, such performance has also created opportunity.

Despite inflation being more elevated than the previous decade, yields - both real and nominal - on higher quality bonds now stand at their highest levels in 15 years.

With growth and inflation slowing, and most developed central banks at or near the end of their hiking cycle, historically this has been when investing in bonds has been the most rewarding.

We currently assign a high probability to an economic 'soft landing', but it's difficult to ignore the warning signs around a potential 'hard landing' as tighter financial conditions bite.

With central banks all but finished raising interest rates, the start of a rate cutting cycle in 2024, would be a real support for bonds. Corporate default rates will likely rise, although with balance sheets relatively robust, we are not expecting them to spike significantly.

US fixed income:
The US economy has shown remarkable resilience over the last 18 months despite a number of headwinds. This economic strength can be attributed to two primary factors. Firstly, the drawdown of consumer excess savings accumulated during the Covid-19 crisis. And secondly, the implementation in 2022 of federal investment programmes, namely the CHIPS and Science Act and the Inflation Reduction Act.

The economic tailwinds provided by these factors over the past 18 months are unlikely to be replicated in the coming quarters. With more than 500 basis points in rate hikes since the beginning of 2022, bond yields have more than tripled.

Emerging market debt:
The exodus of investors from emerging market debt in 2022 continued in 2023. Record outflows and depressed net new issuance have made the asset class severely under-represented in global investors' portfolios. We expect this recovery in performance to gain traction in 2024.

Following a pro-active hiking cycle that has taken the average real policy rate as high as 7%, several EM central banks are now regaining the right to ease. We expect these rate cuts to be moderate in most EM countries.

The already potentially attractive returns in EM fixed income will be boosted further should the US dollar complete its over-extended bull cycle. The dollar is extremely overvalued and unsustainable US twin deficits are now starting to act as a major headwind for the greenback.

We think the post-pandemic long-term bull cycle in commodities is still in place and is also a potential tailwind for several EM bonds and currencies.