Outlook 2021: our view of the risks and opportunities
Markets are responding positively to vaccine developments, and we think there could be a strong recovery in 2021. But there are near-term as well as longer-term risks.

Publication date: January 12, 2021

After a potentially challenging winter subject to further waves of coronavirus, we anticipate a strong global economic recovery in 2021. We expect this to be driven by further positive vaccine news as well as continued support from both central bankers and politicians. Equity and credit markets could move higher, and the dollar and other perceived safe haven assets weaken. We expect inflation to remain contained.

The near term economic outlook
There is light at the end of the tunnel. Progress on the vaccine should, eventually, bring a return to normal social behaviour and end the restrictions which remain in place in many parts of the world today.

The distribution of a vaccine resulting in sufficient immunity should allow for stronger economic activity during the second half of 2021. Persistently loose monetary policy and supportive fiscal measures while activity normalises could see this recovery carry on into 2022, resulting in above trend growth over the next couple of years.

Meanwhile inflation is likely to remain contained in the near term with only a slight pick up in response to a recovery in the oil price. Over the medium term we do see inflationary pressures building, given the acceleration in money supply combined with the potential effects of excess demand from our anticipated above-trend growth.

We know higher inflation poses challenges to investors, but we do not see significant threats in the short term.

The liquidity safety net
The response of both central banks and governments to the pandemic has been remarkable in its speed and scale. The Bank of England recently announced a further £150bn of quantitative easing, bringing the total to nearly £900bn. Meanwhile the Federal Reserve is on course to expand its balance sheet to $9 trillion by 2022.

From a financial market perspective the support provided by low or negative interest rates and abundant fiscal spend has been one of the key themes of 2020. Investors are understandably concerned that a reversal of policy and withdrawal of support may hurt equity markets in 2021.

While the massive increase in fiscal spend this year was initially a reaction to a unique set of circumstances and was likely intended to be temporary, we expect further fiscal spend in 2021, in the US and elsewhere.

The Green agenda and energy transition
The challenge of climate change is well known. To achieve temperature targets, global emissions must fall by 33% from 2010 levels by 2030, a goal that will require significant levels of public and private sector investment. Over the next 15 years global governments are expected to invest $30 trillion on green infrastructure projects.

Energy transition represents a significant long term investment opportunity as we see a shift in global primary energy use towards renewables.

De-globalisation
One outcome of the pandemic has been the acceleration of existing trends which we believe will reshape our daily lives and the investment landscape. Disruption to business models has been brought forward as consumer habits have been forced to change as a result of restrictions on movement.

The events of this year have furthered the shift to a less global economy. The disruption of global supply chains in the first quarter highlighted the benefits of at least diversifying, or fully localising, supply chains. Separately, widening wealth inequality fuelling populist politics has seen further protectionism and economic de-coupling of global powers.

Vaccine-led recovery supportive for cyclical assets
2020 has been a year of winners and losers. A unique set of circumstances forcing changes to working, social and shopping practices have favoured a handful of industries predominantly within the technology sector, while others have faltered under the economic uncertainty.

News of the vaccine breakthrough proved a catalyst for many investors to consider economic recovery in 2021 and the potential for earnings growth in many of the unloved areas of the market.

We have not lost conviction in those sectors such as technology which have done well this year. We continue to see high rates of long term revenue and earnings growth. But we expect the market recovery to broaden out over a wider range of sectors, presenting opportunities in areas which still have ground to make up after a challenging year.

We are not out of the woods yet
Despite the positivity surrounding the roll-out of vaccines, Covid-19 remains a worrying threat. A fast-spreading new strain of the virus in the UK has led to renewed restrictions. Global equity markets enjoyed a strong finish to 2020, valuations are far from cheap and investor sentiment has significantly improved in recent months. It would therefore appear that a lot of the good news has already been priced in.

Even so, the Democrats' success could have a number of implications which test investor sentiment. We could see the corporate tax rate rise to 28%, reducing S&P earnings by some 10%.

In this environment, while we are constructive on risk assets for the year ahead, we feel that maintaining an allocation to defensive assets in the form of government bonds, gold and cash is prudent to help mitigate against periods of volatility over the coming months.