SOURCE: ubs/ubs_2023.pdf
PAGES: 2

--- PAGE 1 ---
Year Ahead 2023: A Year of Inflections
Market Outlook | December 2022
CIO Global Wealth Management provides objective investment research and
guidance to help you pursue your investment goals. Here is a brief overview of an
important new report. Take a look and if you have any questions, please call.
After one of the most challenging years in history for investors, our Chief Investment
Office for Global Wealth Management (CIO) believes we are entering what will be “A
Year of Inflections.”
As the year opens, inflation is high, interest rates are still rising, and growth expec-
UBS Financial Services Inc. tations are falling, with geopolitical tensions, financial stresses, and the legacy of
Landmark Wealth Management COVID-19 adding to uncertainty. Against this backdrop, CIO favors defensive sectors,
income opportunities, “safe havens,” and alternatives.
Gina M. Crowley, CFP®, ADPA®
Senior Vice President - Wealth At a time when calamitous events are in the headlines on an all-too-regular basis, in-
Management vestors will enter 2023 with many questions about the strength and purpose of the po-
Senior Portfolio Manager litical and financial institutions that support global markets. Yet, provided the world can
513-792-5245 avoid another geopolitical, financial, or epidemiological accident, CIO does see a more
gina.crowley@ubs.com favorable backdrop for markets emerging as the year evolves. CIO thinks inflationary
pressures will start to abate, central banks will shift from tightening to loosening policy,
Dan Quible, CFP® and economies, currently slowing, will trough and start to revive.
Senior Vice President - Wealth
Management Navigating inflection points will be key to investment success in the year ahead. For
Wealth Advisor investors who are able to look through short-term noise, the challenges of 2022 should
513-792-5271 give way to longer-term opportunity in the years ahead.
daniel.quible@ubs.com
Inflation inflection
Elizabeth Galvin, CFP® CIO thinks that year-over-year rates of inflation have peaked in the United States and
Vice President - Wealth are in the process of peaking in Europe. In both regions, CIO expects inflation to de-
Management cline through 2023, but the pace and magnitude of the path lower will contribute to
Financial Advisor volatility, reflecting investor fears that even higher interest rates may be needed for
513-792-2162 longer.
libby.galvin@ubs.com
From hikes to cuts
8044 Montgomery Road Although incoming data will be key, CIO expects the Federal Reserve, the European
Suite 100 Central Bank, the Swiss National Bank, and the Bank of England to conduct their final
Cincinnati, OH 45236-2919 rate hikes in the first quarter of 2023, or the second quarter at the latest. Dependent
513-792-2100 800-543-2884 on how sticky inflation proves, the Fed could be in a position to cut interest rates by
the end of the year.
ubs.com/team/landmarkwm
From recession to growth
As higher interest rates begin to affect the economy, CIO expects growth and earnings
expectations to fall through the first half of the year. Overall, CIO is looking for a 4%
earnings contraction in the US, a 10% decline in Europe, and 2% growth in Asia for
the full year. But CIO expects global growth to trough in 2023, and growth forecasts
should improve later in the year as investors begin to look forward to 2024.
From lockdown to reopening
China’s economic cycle has been distinct from the rest of the world’s, due to the
country’s approach to managing COVID-19. Developments from here will hinge on
policy decisions, and President Xi Jinping’s consolidation of power has added to inves-
tor unease. But the outlook could start to improve if a full reopening, which may be
Please see important disclosures on reverse.

--- PAGE 2 ---
likely around the middle of the year, supports consumption, and Add defensives and value
if higher infrastructure spending helps offset weakness in the Defensive sectors such as consumer staples and healthcare
property sector. should prove relatively insulated from lower economic growth
expectations, while value stocks tend to perform well in environ-
Shocks to navigate ments of high inflation. More attractive opportunities to buy
Geopolitical events often spark volatility in financial markets but cyclicals and growth stocks may emerge later in the year as mar-
rarely change the broad trajectory of economic growth. Yet as kets start to anticipate lower inflation and stronger economic
we enter 2023, there is an elevated risk that politics could shape growth.
growth outcomes. Russia’s war in Ukraine poses energy and se-
curity threats to Europe and raises the risk of NATO involvement. Seek income opportunities
US-China tensions are unlikely to lessen given Beijing’s increased The opportunity to earn more predictable returns from income
focus on self-sufficiency, the Biden administration’s moves to strategies is appealing against an uncertain backdrop, while
restrict trade on security grounds, and the potential for discord high market volatility can itself also offer a means of generating
over Taiwan. And, at an individual country level, the increased income. CIO starts the new year with a focus on higher-quality
politicization of economic issues like inflation and interest rates credit issuers, but notes that lower-rated issuers could present
broadens the scope for radical policy interventions and market an opportunity once interest rates and growth stabilize.
dislocations.
Shelter in safe-haven currencies
What does it mean for investors? CIO likes the US dollar and the Swiss franc. Relatively high US
rates and slowing global growth should help keep the dollar
strong in the coming months, and the Swiss franc’s safe-haven
History tells us that durable turning points for markets tend to
appeal is likely to attract inflows. Over the next year, investors
arrive once investors begin to anticipate interest rate cuts and a
will need to prepare for dollar weakness as expectations for Fed
trough in economic activity and corporate earnings. As we enter
policy shift.
2023, high inflation and rising interest rates alongside elevated
earnings expectations and geopolitical risks inform CIO’s invest-
Seek uncorrelated hedge fund strategies
ment themes of defensives, value, income, and safety.
Swings in monetary policy expectations are likely to remain an
important market driver in 2023, meaning that equity-bond
But CIO thinks the backdrop for risky assets should become
correlations will be periodically elevated. In this context, uncor-
more positive as the year progresses. This means investors with
related hedge fund strategies such as macro, equity market neu-
the patience and discipline to stay invested should be rewarded
tral, and multi-strategy funds should continue to help diversify
with time. Investors currently sheltering from volatility will need
portfolios.
to plan when, and how, to rotate back into riskier assets over
the course of 2023.
Certified Financial Planner Board of Standards Inc. owns the certification marks CFP®, Certified Financial Planner™ and federally registered CFP (with flame design) in the U.S., which it
awards to individuals who successfully complete CFP Board’s initial and ongoing certification requirements. For designation disclosures visit https://www.ubs.com/us/en/designation-
disclosures.html. © UBS 2022. All rights reserved. UBS Financial Services Inc. is a subsidiary of UBS AG. Member FINRA/SIPC. D-UBS-189A297B
Visit ubs.com/cio-disclaimer and read the full 4Q outlook report for important disclosures from CIO Global Wealth Management.