SOURCE: ubs/ubs_2022.pdf
PAGES: 9

--- PAGE 1 ---
17 December 2021, 00:48AM UTC
Chief Investment Office GWM
Investment Research
2022 outlook: a year of two halves
US equities
Authors: David Lefkowitz, CFA, Head of Equities Americas, UBS Financial Services Inc. (UBS FS); Nadia Lovell, Senior Equity Strategist Americas, UBS
Financial Services Inc. (UBS FS); Matthew Tormey, Associate Equity Strategist Americas, UBS Financial Services Inc. (UBS FS)
• We expect solid equity market returns in 2022
driven by strong consumer and business spending.
While the Fed is beginning to withdraw stimulus, it
will be some time before policy gets “tight.” Stocks
usually rise after the first Fed rate hike. Our S&P 500
price targets are 5,000 for June 2022 and 5,100 for
December 2022.
• However, economic and corporate profit growth
will likely slow and inflation will cool as the year Source: UBS
progresses. This could lead to a year of “two
halves” whereby the market winners in the first half
of the year could be somewhat different from those
in the second half.
• In the first portion of the year a cyclical bias
within the equity market still makes sense, but
it may be a challenge for cyclicals to outperform
as growth begins to slow. Right now we prefer
value and mid-caps. At a sector level we prefer
consumer discretionary, energy, financials, and
healthcare. Our preferred themes include companies
that are leveraged to robust business spending,
easing supply chains, and beneficiaries of Biden
administration policies, among others.
Strong economic momentum... low mortgage rates, and over USD 2 trillion of “excess”
It has been another strong year for equity investors with savings (Fig. 2). Third, business spending is on solid footing
the S&P 500 up 26% as of this writing. This comes on the driven by record corporate profits (and profitability),
heels of an 18% gain in 2020. Still, we believe the drivers easy access to capital (Fig. 3), and significant needs to
that have propelled equites on this strong run should rebuild inventories and expand capacity to accommodate
remain in place as we enter 2022. the surge in demand. Finally, the Fed unleashed an
extraordinary amount of support in 2020. And although
First, despite some periodic setbacks, the pandemic the central bank is beginning to wind down this stimulus,
continues to improve. About 8.5 billion vaccine shots it will take quite a while for monetary policy to become
have been administered globally and some very promising “tight.” As a result, our economics team expects robust
antivirals look poised to be approved by regulators. economic growth of 4.5% in 2022 and solid growth of
Omicron is a risk, but society should be better prepared 2.9% in 2023.
for this wave. Second, consumer spending should remain
well-supported by plentiful jobs (Fig. 1), rising wages,
This report has been prepared by UBS Financial Services Inc. (UBS FS). Please see important disclaimers and
disclosures at the end of the document.

--- PAGE 2 ---
US equities
Fig. 1: Record unfilled jobs revenue growth. As a result, we expect revenue growth
Job openings in millions (JOLTS) of nearly 8% in 2022. Cyclical segments of the market
such as industrials (especially aerospace) and consumer
discretionary that are still recovering from the pandemic
should grow faster than average.
Consistent with recent quarters, the strong revenue
growth should help offset continued cost pressures.
Furthermore, as we explain a bit later on, we expect
inflationary pressures to ease over the course of 2022.
Therefore, we expect profit margins to remain at high
levels. Supply chain bottlenecks are a wildcard, but most
large companies have been managing through these
headwinds relatively well, and it appears that supply
Source: Bloomberg, UBS, as of 16 December 2021 chain strains are not getting worse and may actually be
improving in certain segments. Share buybacks—which
account for 1.8% of the S&P 500 market cap on a trailing
Fig. 2: US consumer savings remain elevated basis will also support earnings per share growth.
Personal savings as % of disposable income
...and solid profit growth
Lastly, we no longer expect corporate tax hikes in 2022.
Instead, it appears that any tax hikes associated with
the Build Back Better bill that is currently pending in
Congress will be implemented in 2023. We had previously
estimated that these tax hikes would reduce S&P 500
profits by about 2-3% and had incorporated them into
our estimates. Shifting the tax hike into 2023 increases our
2022 estimate but has no impact on our 2023 estimate. It
does, however, mean that EPS growth will be a bit higher
in 2022 and a bit lower in 2023 than we had previously
Source: Bloomberg, UBS, as of 16 December 2021
expected. Putting it all together, we now expect 2022 EPS
of USD 235 (12% growth) up from USD 233 previously.
Fig. 3: Access to capital for businesses is easy We are also introducing a 2023 EPS estimate of USD 255
(9% growth), (Fig. 4).
Senior Loan Officer Opinion Survey (shaded area = recession)
Fig. 4: Continued strong earnings growth
S&P 500 Annual EPS, actuals and CIO estimates
Source: Bloomberg, UBS, as of 16 December 2021
...driving strong revenue growth...
Source: FactSet, UBS, as of 16 December 2021
Our outlook for solid economic growth should translate
into another year of healthy gains in corporate profits.
Positive earnings revisions
Clearly, S&P 500 earnings growth will slow from the torrid
Our estimates are about 5% higher than the bottom-
48% pace in 2021. But growth should still be higher
up consensus for both years. So, we expect analysts to
than average. Our economics team believes nominal
continue to raise their outlooks. Our expectations for the
GDP growth (including inflation) should be about 7%.
ISM Manufacturing index also gives us conviction that
Nominal growth tends to be a good proxy for S&P 500
analyst estimates will continue to move higher. As we
02

--- PAGE 3 ---
US equities
show in Fig. 5, there is a good correlation between the When assessing valuations, we think it is important to look
ISM Manufacturing index and earnings revisions. While at valuation in the context of the current environment.
the ISM index will most likely trend lower over the course There is no doubt that equity market valuations are higher
of the year, it will take some time before the index falls than long term historical averages. But valuations are
to a level that would suggest downside risks to analyst reasonable based on the current set of macro-economic
estimates. conditions. As we show in Fig. 7, over the last seven years,
the S&P 500 forward P/E can largely be explained by
Fig. 5: Healthy business sentiment suggests the real 10-year interest rate (nominal rate less inflation
positive earnings revisions expectations), changes in the ISM Manufacturing index,
the consumer price index, and high yield credit spreads. Of
ISM Manufacturing (>50 denotes expansion) and S&P 500 EPS revisions
those variables, the real interest rate is the most important.
The relationship suggests that every 0.5% increase in real
10-year interest rates will reduce the fitted P/E by about
1.6x. But every 1% decline in the consumer price index
will boost the P/E by 0.6x.
Fig. 7: Valuation is consistent with current macro
conditions
S&P 500 actual forward P/E vs. fitted P/E (defined in text)
Source: Datastream, Bloomberg, UBS, as of 30 November 2021
At a sector level, industrials, consumer discretionary, and
energy will produce the fastest earnings growth, largely
driven by a recovery in COVID-impaired segments (Fig.
6). Earnings for financials will likely decline in 2022, but
bear in mind that 2021 results have been flattered by the
release of provisions for loan losses that were built up
in 2020 during the height of the economic lockdowns. Source: Bloomberg, UBS, as of 30 November 2021
Investors know that 2021 earnings have been bolstered
by this one-time benefit, and would suggest a focus on Stocks attractive versus bonds
recurring earnings growth. If we strip out the impact of The yield spread between stocks and bonds tells a similar
the reserve releases, financials will likely produce 8% story. Fig. 8 shows this yield spread. The S&P 500’s
earnings growth in 2022. earnings yield (earnings divided by price) is currently
4.5%. The 10-year Treasury is yielding 1.4%. So the
Fig. 6: Cyclical sectors should produce rapid yield on stocks is about 3.0% higher than the yield on
bonds. As the chart shows, the yield advantage for stocks
earnings growth
looks fairly attractive relative to history. So once again,
2022 EPS growth, UBS CIO estimates
stock valuations look reasonable, especially given the
alternatives. Furthermore, stocks can offer some inflation
protection because many costs can be passed on to
consumers in the form of higher prices, thereby protecting
corporate profits. Bonds and cash are not keeping pace
with inflation.
Source: FactSet, UBS, as of 16 December 2021
Valuations high but consistent with macro conditions
03

--- PAGE 4 ---
US equities
Fig. 8: Equity valuations appear reasonable the outlook for real rates and inflation, the pace of Fed
relative to bonds tightening will likely also be a key driver. Right now the
futures markets are suggesting that the Fed funds rate will
S&P 500 equity risk premium (Earnings yield minus 10-year Treasury
yield) rise from 0.1% to about 0.8% by the end of 2022. That
equates to about three rate hikes of a quarter percentage
point each. Rate hikes of that magnitude should already
be anticipated by the equity market, in our view.
So that gives us a June 2022 price target of 5,000 and
a December 2022 price target of 5,100. Equity markets
should be well-supported in the early part of the year
by better than expected corporate profits, easing supply
chain bottlenecks, hopefully continued progress on the
pandemic, and a cooling in inflation. However, as we get
deeper into 2022 and growth begins to slow to more
Source: Bloomberg, UBS, as of 16 December 2021
sustainable levels, the risks to the equity market could
rise, especially if the Fed raises interest rates more than
Valuation matters more for long-term returns
expected. Incidentally, Fed hiking doesn’t tend to be
Lastly, it’s important to understand how valuations should
negative for equity markets. Fig. 10 shows the average
influence portfolio allocation decisions. Valuations have
performance of the S&P 500 in the months after the first
very little correlation with returns over the next one to
Fed interest rate hike.
three years. But valuations are much more powerful
when assessing the longer term outlook. Today’s high P/
Fig. 10: Stocks tend to rise after the Fed begins
E ratios suggest that returns for US large-cap stocks will
be low by historical standards (Fig. 9). But we don't think to raise interest rates
high valuations will have a material impact on the 2022 S&P 500 performance in the months after the first Fed rate hike, since
outlook. 1983
Fig. 9: Valuations play an important role in long-
term returns
S&P 500 historical annualized returns vs. trailing P/E, current: 22.5x
Source: Bloomberg, UBS, as of 16 December 2021
The pace of inventory replenishment could also be a
key factor. Inventories (Fig. 11) may start getting rebuilt
at the same time that demand is cooling. This raises
Source: Bloomberg, UBS, as of 16 December 2021 the risk of an overshoot on inventories that could lead
to an even more pronounced slowdown in business
One final point, sharp reductions (more than 15%) momentum. There is a strong correlation between the
in valuations usually only occur in recessions, during ISM Manufacturing index and equity market returns (Fig.
heightened fears of recession, or if the market is 12). So we will be watching the pace of the decline in
concerned that Fed policy is too restrictive. Of the three the ISM Manufacturing index very closely. An ISM reading
risks, an overly aggressive Fed seems the most likely and approaching 50 by the end of the year is certainly a
something we will be on the watch for over the course of possibility and that would typically be associated with a
2022. more challenging environment for stocks.
Further gains ahead
Based on the valuation discussion above, we believe a
target P/E of 20x is appropriate for the S&P 500, which is
slightly lower than the current forward P/E of 21x. Besides
04

--- PAGE 5 ---
US equities
Fig. 11: Low inventories suggest strong business Fig. 13: Explosive demand for goods has sparked
spending ahead inflation
ISM Manufacturing customer inventories index YoY % change in goods consumption as measured in GDP
Source: Bloomberg, UBS, as of 16 December 2021 Source: Bloomberg, UBS, as of 30 September 2021
The jump in commodity prices seen this year is also
Fig. 12: Market gains are highly correlated with unlikely to repeat. We’re already seeing pullbacks in
business sentiment lumber and steel prices. Oil prices—the most important
commodity—were depressed a year ago and have
S&P 500 and ISM Manufacturing index (>50 denotes expansion)
surged 50% over the last 12 months. But with oil
prices now much closer to our estimate of a long-term
"normal" price, it's highly unlikely that a surge of that
magnitude will repeat in the coming year. Moreover,
long-term inflation expectations have moved up but are
still anchored at around 3% (Fig. 14), suggesting that
consumers are not expecting the surge in prices to be
long-lasting. Inflation expectations are an important
component of the willingness of consumers to accept
higher inflation.
Source: Bloomberg, UBS, as of 30 November 2021
Fig. 14: Long-term inflation expectations haven't
spiked
Inflation is a key risk but should moderate
One of the main risks to our constructive outlook is Univ of Michigan expected change in prices, next 5-10 years
inflation and the possibility that the Fed will be forced
to hike interest rates substantially faster than expected.
But looking at the drivers of the inflation surge gives
us confidence that the pace of price increases should
moderate. From our perch, the explosive growth in goods
consumption (Fig. 13) has been the main driver of higher
inflation. The goods-producing sector of the economy
and the logistics networks simply did not have enough
capacity to handle this level of demand. The good news
is that the pace of growth in goods consumption is
already moderating. This should give the supply side of
the economy time to catch up to demand. The eventual
Source: Bloomberg, UBS, as of 16 December 2021
winding down of the pandemic should further cool
demand for goods as consumers shift purchases back
Finally, wage growth has ticked up recently and is worth
to services (vacations, restaurants, live entertainment).
watching. However, the wage pressures are not yet broad-
Better pandemic trends should also mean that production
based (Fig. 15), suggesting that the economy is not yet
disruptions can be avoided.
in a wage-price spiral that propelled inflation higher in
the 1970s. Furthermore, there should still be slack in the
labor markets, with payrolls still down by 4 million from
their pre-pandemic level, not to mention the fact that the
05

--- PAGE 6 ---
US equities
working age population has increased by about 2 million Fig. 16: Maintain a cyclical tilt in our sector
since the onset of the pandemic. preferences
Tactical preferences from benchmark (S&P 500)
Fig. 15: Wage increases not yet problematic
Atlanta Fed Wage Growth Tracker, median wage growth
Source: Bloomberg, UBS, as of 16 December 2021
Source: UBS, as of 16 December 2021
Stay cyclical for now
Heading into the new year, we continue to believe Prefer value over growth
investors should have a cyclical tilt in their portfolios. Our preference for value over growth revolves around two
Today's current strong economic and earnings growth key pillars: strong earnings growth and further increases in
should be supportive for cyclicals, which are most long-term interest rates. Value’s recent underperformance
leveraged to these trends. Still, economic growth should is likely due to less confidence in the outlook for these two
slow as the year progresses, and it may be prudent to scale pillars driven by the recent uptick in COVID-19 cases from
back cyclical exposure over the course of the year. Among the delta and omicron variants. As the COVID-19 waves
sectors, we have most preferred views on consumer crest in the coming months, investors should gain more
discretionary, energy, financials, and healthcare. Consumer confidence in the growth outlook and long-term interest
staples and utilities are least preferred (Fig. 16). rates should rise, supporting value stocks. Furthermore,
during periods of strong economic growth, it’s common
The consumer discretionary sector should benefit from to see value index earnings grow at a faster pace than
household balance sheets that are flush with cash, a growth index earnings. We are seeing evidence of this
robust jobs market, secular trends in e-commerce, and already. This should continue for the next several quarters.
low mortgage rates. Financial sector profitability is likely Lastly, value stocks look incredibly cheap relative to growth
to improve as short-term interest rates move higher. Our stocks.
fixed income team's expectations for an increase in longer-
term interest rates (10-year Treasury yield to reach 2% Prefer mid-caps
by June) should boost valuations for the sector. Relative Within size segments, we maintain our preference for
to oil prices, the energy sector looks cheap. It appears mid-caps over large-caps. Smaller-sized segments tend
that the sector is pricing in an oil price in the high USD to benefit during periods of strong economic growth
50s. After years of under-investment in oil exploration and as the cycle matures, the higher quality nature of
and production, it seems likely that today's spot West mid-caps should lead to more resilient returns relative to
Texas Intermediate (WTI) oil price of around USD 70 has small-caps. Recently, we’ve also seen a high correlation
an upward bias and prices in this range will be sustained between mid-caps and the yield curve suggesting further
for quite some time. Our commodity team believes spot outperformance if the curve steepens. Lastly, valuations
oil prices should reach USD 82 by mid-year. Healthcare is and earnings growth relative to large-caps are attractive.
the fastest growing defensive sector and most risks around
drug pricing reform appear to be reflected in share prices Timely themes
based on very attractive valuations. Consumer staples Finally, investors can also take advantage of the current
and utilities tend to lag the market in periods of robust economic and market environment through a number of
earnings growth. themes. In the latest monthly update of our Tactical US
Equity Themes report, we highlight companies that we
expect to benefit from a number of themes including:
beneficiaries from Biden administration policies; companies
leveraged to higher business spending; and our newest
06

--- PAGE 7 ---
US equities
theme focused on companies we believe will benefit as
supply chain disruptions ease. For more details, please see
Tactical US Equity Themes: monthly update and Easing
supply chain winners.
07

--- PAGE 8 ---
US equities
Appendix
UBS Chief Investment Office's ("CIO") investment views are prepared and published by the Global Wealth Management business of UBS
Switzerland AG (regulated by FINMA in Switzerland) or its affiliates ("UBS").
The investment views have been prepared in accordance with legal requirements designed to promote the independence of investment
research.
Generic investment research – Risk information:
This publication is for your information only and is not intended as an offer, or a solicitation of an offer, to buy or sell any investment or
other specific product. The analysis contained herein does not constitute a personal recommendation or take into account the particular
investment objectives, investment strategies, financial situation and needs of any specific recipient. It is based on numerous assumptions.
Different assumptions could result in materially different results. Certain services and products are subject to legal restrictions and cannot be
offered worldwide on an unrestricted basis and/or may not be eligible for sale to all investors. All information and opinions expressed in this
document were obtained from sources believed to be reliable and in good faith, but no representation or warranty, express or implied, is made
as to its accuracy or completeness (other than disclosures relating to UBS). All information and opinions as well as any forecasts, estimates and
market prices indicated are current as of the date of this report, and are subject to change without notice. Opinions expressed herein may differ
or be contrary to those expressed by other business areas or divisions of UBS as a result of using different assumptions and/or criteria.
In no circumstances may this document or any of the information (including any forecast, value, index or other calculated amount ("Values"))
be used for any of the following purposes (i) valuation or accounting purposes; (ii) to determine the amounts due or payable, the price or
the value of any financial instrument or financial contract; or (iii) to measure the performance of any financial instrument including, without
limitation, for the purpose of tracking the return or performance of any Value or of defining the asset allocation of portfolio or of computing
performance fees. By receiving this document and the information you will be deemed to represent and warrant to UBS that you will not use this
document or otherwise rely on any of the information for any of the above purposes. UBS and any of its directors or employees may be entitled
at any time to hold long or short positions in investment instruments referred to herein, carry out transactions involving relevant investment
instruments in the capacity of principal or agent, or provide any other services or have officers, who serve as directors, either to/for the issuer,
the investment instrument itself or to/for any company commercially or financially affiliated to such issuers. At any time, investment decisions
(including whether to buy, sell or hold securities) made by UBS and its employees may differ from or be contrary to the opinions expressed in
UBS research publications. Some investments may not be readily realizable since the market in the securities is illiquid and therefore valuing the
investment and identifying the risk to which you are exposed may be difficult to quantify. UBS relies on information barriers to control the flow
of information contained in one or more areas within UBS, into other areas, units, divisions or affiliates of UBS. Futures and options trading is
not suitable for every investor as there is a substantial risk of loss, and losses in excess of an initial investment may occur. Past performance of
an investment is no guarantee for its future performance. Additional information will be made available upon request. Some investments may
be subject to sudden and large falls in value and on realization you may receive back less than you invested or may be required to pay more.
Changes in foreign exchange rates may have an adverse effect on the price, value or income of an investment. The analyst(s) responsible for
the preparation of this report may interact with trading desk personnel, sales personnel and other constituencies for the purpose of gathering,
synthesizing and interpreting market information.
Tax treatment depends on the individual circumstances and may be subject to change in the future. UBS does not provide legal or tax advice and
makes no representations as to the tax treatment of assets or the investment returns thereon both in general or with reference to specific client's
circumstances and needs. We are of necessity unable to take into account the particular investment objectives, financial situation and needs of
our individual clients and we would recommend that you take financial and/or tax advice as to the implications (including tax) of investing in any
of the products mentioned herein.
This material may not be reproduced or copies circulated without prior authority of UBS. Unless otherwise agreed in writing UBS expressly
prohibits the distribution and transfer of this material to third parties for any reason. UBS accepts no liability whatsoever for any claims or
lawsuits from any third parties arising from the use or distribution of this material. This report is for distribution only under such circumstances as
may be permitted by applicable law. For information on the ways in which CIO manages conflicts and maintains independence of its investment
views and publication offering, and research and rating methodologies, please visit www.ubs.com/research. Additional information on the
relevant authors of this publication and other CIO publication(s) referenced in this report; and copies of any past reports on this topic; are
available upon request from your client advisor.
Options and futures are not suitable for all investors, and trading in these instruments is considered risky and may be appropriate only
for sophisticated investors. Prior to buying or selling an option, and for the complete risks relating to options, you must receive a copy of
"Characteristics and Risks of Standardized Options". You may read the document at https://www.theocc.com/about/publications/character-
risks.jsp or ask your financial advisor for a copy.
Investing in structured investments involves significant risks. For a detailed discussion of the risks involved in investing in any particular structured
investment, you must read the relevant offering materials for that investment. Structured investments are unsecured obligations of a particular
issuer with returns linked to the performance of an underlying asset. Depending on the terms of the investment, investors could lose all or a
substantial portion of their investment based on the performance of the underlying asset. Investors could also lose their entire investment if the
issuer becomes insolvent. UBS Financial Services Inc. does not guarantee in any way the obligations or the financial condition of any issuer or the
accuracy of any financial information provided by any issuer. Structured investments are not traditional investments and investing in a structured
investment is not equivalent to investing directly in the underlying asset. Structured investments may have limited or no liquidity, and investors
should be prepared to hold their investment to maturity. The return of structured investments may be limited by a maximum gain, participation
rate or other feature. Structured investments may include call features and, if a structured investment is called early, investors would not earn any
further return and may not be able to reinvest in similar investments with similar terms. Structured investments include costs and fees which are
generally embedded in the price of the investment. The tax treatment of a structured investment may be complex and may differ from a direct
investment in the underlying asset. UBS Financial Services Inc. and its employees do not provide tax advice. Investors should consult their own tax
advisor about their own tax situation before investing in any securities.
Important Information About Sustainable Investing Strategies: Sustainable investing strategies aim to consider and incorporate
environmental, social and governance (ESG) factors into investment process and portfolio construction. Strategies across geographies and styles
approach ESG analysis and incorporate the findings in a variety of ways. Incorporating ESG factors or Sustainable Investing considerations may
08

--- PAGE 9 ---
US equities
inhibit the portfolio manager’s ability to participate in certain investment opportunities that otherwise would be consistent with its investment
objective and other principal investment strategies. The returns on a portfolio consisting primarily of sustainable investments may be lower
or higher than portfolios where ESG factors, exclusions, or other sustainability issues are not considered by the portfolio manager, and the
investment opportunities available to such portfolios may differ. Companies may not necessarily meet high performance standards on all
aspects of ESG or sustainable investing issues; there is also no guarantee that any company will meet expectations in connection with corporate
responsibility, sustainability, and/or impact performance.
External Asset Managers / External Financial Consultants: In case this research or publication is provided to an External Asset Manager
or an External Financial Consultant, UBS expressly prohibits that it is redistributed by the External Asset Manager or the External Financial
Consultant and is made available to their clients and/or third parties.
USA: Distributed to US persons by UBS Financial Services Inc., UBS Securities LLC or UBS Swiss Financial Advisers AG, subsidiaries of UBS AG.
UBS Switzerland AG, UBS Europe SE, UBS Bank, S.A., UBS Brasil Administradora de Valores Mobiliarios Ltda, UBS Asesores Mexico, S.A. de C.V.,
UBS SuMi TRUST Wealth Management Co., Ltd., UBS Wealth Management Israel Ltd and UBS Menkul Degerler AS are affiliates of UBS AG. UBS
Financial Services Incorporated of Puerto Rico is a subsidiary of UBS Financial Services Inc. UBS Financial Services Inc. accepts responsibility
for the content of a report prepared by a non-US affiliate when it distributes reports to US persons. All transactions by a US person
in the securities mentioned in this report should be effected through a US-registered broker dealer affiliated with UBS, and not
through a non-US affiliate. The contents of this report have not been and will not be approved by any securities or investment
authority in the United States or elsewhere. UBS Financial Services Inc. is not acting as a municipal advisor to any municipal entity
or obligated person within the meaning of Section 15B of the Securities Exchange Act (the "Municipal Advisor Rule") and the
opinions or views contained herein are not intended to be, and do not constitute, advice within the meaning of the Municipal
Advisor Rule.
For country information, please visit ubs.com/cio-country-disclaimer-gr or ask your client advisor for the full disclaimer.
Version B/2021. CIO82652744
© UBS 2021.The key symbol and UBS are among the registered and unregistered trademarks of UBS. All rights reserved.
09