SOURCE: vanguard/vanguard_2022.pdf
PAGES: 59

--- PAGE 1 ---
Vanguard research December 2021
Vanguard economic and market
outlook for 2022: Striking a
better balance
● Although the COVID-19 pandemic will remain a critical factor in 2022, the outlook
for macroeconomic policy will likely be more crucial. Our outlook for the global
economy will be shaped by how the support and stimulus enacted to combat the
pandemic are withdrawn. The removal of policy support poses a new challenge for
policymakers and a source of risk for financial markets.
● While the economic recovery is expected to continue through 2022, the easy
gains in growth from rebounding activity are behind us. We expect growth in
both the U.S. and the euro area to slow down to 4% in 2022. In China, we expect
growth to fall to about 5%, and in the U.K. we expect growth to be about 5.5%.
● Inflation has remained high across most economies, driven both by higher demand
as pandemic restrictions were lifted and by lower supply resulting from global
labor and input shortages. Although a return to 1970s-style stagflation is not in
the cards, we expect inflation to remain elevated across developed markets as
the forces of demand and supply take some time to stabilize.
● Central banks will have to maintain the delicate balance between keeping
inflation expectations anchored and allowing for a supportive environment for
economic growth. As negative supply shocks push inflation higher, they threaten
to set off a self-fulfilling cycle of ever higher inflation, which could begin to chip
away at demand. Ultimately, we anticipate that the Federal Reserve will raise
rates to at least 2.5% by the end of this cycle to keep wage pressures under
control and to keep inflation expectations stable.
● As we look toward 2022 and beyond, our long-term outlook for assets is guarded,
particularly for equities amid a backdrop of low bond yields, reduced support,
and stretched valuations. Within fixed income, low interest rates guide our outlook
for low returns; however, with rates moving higher since 2020, we see the potential
for correspondingly higher returns.
For professional investors only (as defined under the MiFID II Directive) investing for their own account (including
management companies (fund of funds) and professional clients investing on behalf of their discretionary clients). In
Switzerland for professional investors only. Not to be distributed to the public. This document is published by Vanguard
Group Inc. It is for educational purposes only and is not a recommendation or solicitation to buy or sell investments. It
should be noted that it is written in the context of the US market and contains data and analysis specific to the US.

--- PAGE 2 ---
Lead authors
Joseph Davis, Roger A. Peter Westaway, Qian Wang, Andrew J.
Ph.D. Aliaga-Díaz, Ph.D. Ph.D. Ph.D. Patterson, CFA
Kevin DiCiurcio, Alexis Gray, Asawari Sathe, Joshua M. Hirt,
CFA M.Sc. M.Sc. CFA
Vanguard Investment Strategy Group
Global Economics Team
Joseph Davis, Ph.D., Global Chief Economist
Americas Europe
Roger A. Aliaga-Díaz, Ph.D., Americas Chief Economist Peter Westaway, Ph.D., Europe Chief Economist
Joshua M. Hirt, CFA, Senior Economist Shaan Raithatha, CFA
Andrew J. Patterson, CFA, Senior Economist Roxane Spitznagel, M.Sc.
Asawari Sathe, M.Sc., Senior Economist Griffin Tory, M.Phil.
Adam J. Schickling, CFA
Capital Markets Model Research Team
Maximilian Wieland
Qian Wang, Ph.D., Global Head of VCMM
David Diwik, M.Sc.
Kevin DiCiurcio, CFA, Senior Investment Strategist
Amina Enkhbold, Ph.D.
Boyu (Daniel) Wu, Ph.D.
Asia-Pacific Ian Kresnak, CFA
Qian Wang, Ph.D., Asia-Pacific Chief Economist Vytautas Maciulis, CFA
Alexis Gray, M.Sc., Senior Economist Olga Lepigina, MBA
Beatrice Yeo, CFA Akeel Marley, MBA
Edoardo Cilla, M.Sc.
Lukas Brandl-Cheng, M.Sc.
Alex Qu
Editorial note: This publication is an update of Vanguard’s annual economic and market outlook for key economies
around the globe. Aided by Vanguard Capital Markets Model® simulations and other research, we also forecast future
performance for a broad array of fixed income and equity asset classes.
Acknowledgments: We thank Brand Design, Corporate Communications, Strategic Communications, and the Global
Economics and Capital Markets Outlook teams for their significant contributions to this piece. Further, we would like to
acknowledge the work of Vanguard’s broader Investment Strategy Group, without whose tireless research efforts this
piece would not be possible.

--- PAGE 3 ---
Contents
Global outlook summary ......................................................................................................................................4
I. Global economic perspectives ....................................................................................................................7
Global economic outlook: Striking a better balance .......................................................................................7
United States: Constraints pose threat as pandemic loosens grip on the economy .............................19
Euro area: Accommodative monetary policy set to continue despite inflationary pressures .............23
United Kingdom: Bank is committed to firm but cautious tightening path ............................................27
China: Growth headwinds to intensify amid transition toward a new policy paradigm ......................29
Emerging markets: Recovery is underway, but with some hurdles ............................................................33
II. Global capital markets outlook ...............................................................................................................38
Global equity markets: A widening performance gap .................................................................................40
Global fixed income: Rising rates won’t upend markets..............................................................................48
Stock/bond correlations: Inflation needs to run hotter for long-term correlations to flip positive ...52
A balanced portfolio for a more balanced environment ..............................................................................53
III. Appendix ...............................................................................................................................................................56
About the Vanguard Capital Markets Model ..................................................................................................56
Indexes for VCMM simulations ...........................................................................................................................57
Notes on asset-return distributions
The asset-return distributions shown here represent Vanguard’s view on the potential range of
risk premiums that may occur over the next 10 years; such long-term projections are not intended
to be extrapolated into a short-term view. These potential outcomes for long-term investment
returns are generated by the Vanguard Capital Markets Model® (VCMM) and reflect the collective
perspective of our Investment Strategy Group. The expected risk premiums—and the uncertainty
surrounding those expectations—are among a number of qualitative and quantitative inputs used
in Vanguard’s investment methodology and portfolio construction process.
IMPORTANT: The projections and other information generated by the VCMM regarding the
likelihood of various investment outcomes are hypothetical in nature, do not reflect actual
investment results, and are not guarantees of future results. Distribution of return outcomes
from the VCMM are derived from 10,000 simulations for each modeled asset class. Simulations
are as of September 30, 2021. Results from the model may vary with each use and over time.
For more information, see the Appendix section “About the Vanguard Capital Markets Model.”
3

--- PAGE 4 ---
Global outlook summary
The global economy in 2022: Global inflation: Lower but stickier
Striking a better balance
Inflation has continued to trend higher across
Our outlook for 2021 focused on the impact most economies, driven by a combination of
of COVID-19 health outcomes on economic and higher demand as pandemic restrictions were
financial conditions. Our view was that economic lifted and lower supply from global labor and
growth would prove unusually strong, with the input shortages. While we don’t envision a return
prospects for an “inflation scare” as growth to 1970s-style inflation, we anticipate that supply/
picked up. As we come to the end of 2021, parts demand frictions will persist well into 2022 and
of the economy and markets are out of balance. keep inflation elevated across developed and
Labor demand exceeds supply, financial conditions emerging markets. That said, it is highly likely
are exceptionally loose even when compared with that inflation at the end of 2022 will be lower
improved fundamentals, and policy accommodation than at the beginning of the year given
remains extraordinary. the unusual run-up in goods prices.
Although health outcomes will remain important Although inflation should cool in 2022, its
in 2022 given the emergence of the Omicron composition should be stickier. More persistent
variant, the outlook for macro economic policy will wage- and shelter-based inflation should remain
be more crucial as support and stimulus packages elevated given our employment outlook and will
enacted to combat the pandemic-driven downturn be the critical determinant in central banks’
are gradually removed into 2022. The removal of adjustment of policy.
policy support poses a new challenge for policy-
makers and a new risk to financial markets.
Policy takes center stage:
The global economic recovery is likely to continue The risk of a misstep increases
in 2022, although we expect the low-hanging
The global policy response to COVID-19 was
fruit of rebounding activity to give way to slower
impressive and effective. Moving into 2022,
growth whether supply-chain challenges ease or
how will policymakers navigate an exit from
not. In both the United States and the euro area,
exceptionally accommodative policy? The bounds
we expect growth to slow down to 4%. In the
of appropriate policy expanded during the
U.K., we expect growth of about 5.5%, and in
pandemic, but it’s possible that not all these
China we expect growth to fall to about 5%.
policies will be unwound as conditions normalize.
On the fiscal side, government officials need to
More important, labor markets will continue to
trade off between higher spending—due to
tighten in 2022 given robust labor demand, even
pandemic-driven policies—and more balanced
as growth decelerates. We anticipate that several
budgets to ensure debt sustainability.
major economies, led by the U.S., will quickly
approach full employment even with a modest
On the monetary side, central bankers will have
pickup in labor force participation. Wage growth
to strike a balance between keeping a lid on
should remain robust, and wage inflation is likely
inflation expectations, given negative supply-side
to become more influential than headline inflation
shocks, and supporting a return to pre-COVID
for the direction of interest rates in 2022.
employment levels. In the United States, that
balance should involve the Federal Reserve raising
interest rates in the second half of 2022 to ensure
that elevated wage inflation does not translate
4

--- PAGE 5 ---
into more permanent core inflation. At present, incorporate such varied effects, continue to reveal
we see the negative risks of too-easy policy a global equity market that is drifting close to
accommodation outweighing the risks of raising overvalued territory, primarily because of U.S.
short-term rates. Given conditions in the labor stock prices. Our outlook calls not for a lost
and financial markets, the Fed may ultimately decade for U.S. stocks, as some fear, but for
need to raise rates to at least 2.5% this cycle, a lower-return one.
higher than some are expecting.
Specifically, we are projecting the lowest 10-year
annualized returns for global equities since the
The bond market: Rising rates early 2000s. We expect the lowest ones in the
won’t upend markets U.S. (2.3%–4.3% per year), with more attractive
expected returns for non-U.S. developed markets
Despite modest increases during 2021, govern-
(5.3%–7.3%) and, to a lesser degree, emerging
ment bond yields remain below pre-COVID levels.
markets (4.2%–6.2%). The outlook for the global
The prospect of rising inflation and policy
equity risk premium is still positive but lower
normalization means that the short-term policy
than we expected last year, with total returns
rates targeted by the Fed, the European Central
expected in the range of 2 to 4 percentage points
Bank, and other developed-market policymakers
over bond returns.
are likely to rise over the coming year. Credit
spreads remain generally very tight. Rising rates
For U.S. investors, this modest return outlook
are unlikely to produce negative total returns over
belies opportunities for those investing broadly
the medium and long term, given our inflation
outside their home market. Recent outperformance
outlook and given the secular forces that should
has only strengthened our conviction in non-U.S.
keep long-term rates low.
equities, which have more attractive valuations
than U.S. equities. Although emerging-market
equities are above our estimate of fair value, we
Global equities: A decade unlike the last
still expect higher returns than for U.S. equities,
A backdrop of low bond yields, reduced policy combined with diversification benefits for
support, and stretched valuations offers a investors. Within U.S. markets, we think value
challenging environment despite solid funda- stocks are still more attractive than growth
mentals. Our Vanguard Capital Markets Model stocks, despite value’s outperformance over the
fair-value stock projections, which explicitly last 12 months.
5

--- PAGE 6 ---
Indexes used in our historical calculations
The long-term returns for our hypothetical portfolios are based on data for the appropriate
market indexes through September 30, 2021. We chose these benchmarks to provide the best
history possible, and we split the global allocations to align with Vanguard’s guidance in
constructing diversified portfolios.
U.S. bonds: S tandard & Poor’s High Grade Corporate Index from 1926 through 1968; Citigroup High
Grade Index from 1969 through 1972; Lehman Brothers U.S. Long Credit AA Index from 1973
through 1975; and Bloomberg U.S. Aggregate Bond Index thereafter.
Ex-U.S. bonds: Citigroup World Government Bond Ex-U.S. Index from 1985 through January 1989
and Bloomberg Global Aggregate ex-USD Index thereafter.
Global bonds: Before January 1990, 100% U.S. bonds, as defined above. January 1990 onward,
70% U.S. bonds and 30% ex-U.S. bonds, rebalanced monthly.
U.S. equities: S&P 90 Index from January 1926 through March 1957; S&P 500 Index from March
1957 through 1974; Dow Jones Wilshire 5000 Index from the beginning of 1975 through April 2005;
and MSCI US Broad Market Index thereafter.
Ex-U.S. equities: MSCI World ex USA Index from January 1970 through 1987 and MSCI All Country
World ex USA Index thereafter.
Global equities: Before January 1970, 100% U.S. equities, as defined above. January 1970 onward,
60% U.S. equities and 40% ex-U.S. equities, rebalanced monthly.
6

--- PAGE 7 ---
I. Global economic perspectives
Global economic outlook: Striking a Inflation has continued to rise across most
better balance economies, driven by a combination of higher
demand as pandemic restrictions are lifted and
Our outlook for 2021 focused on the impact of
lower supply due to labor and input shortages
health outcomes on economic and financial
globally. Although a return to 1970s-style inflation
market conditions (Davis et al., 2020a). Although
is not in the cards, we expect inflation to peak
the evolution of health outcomes will continue to
and moderate thereafter over the first half of
play a significant role in defining our environment,
2022 but remain elevated through year-end 2022
our outlook for 2022 and beyond begins to shift
across developed and emerging markets. Along
focus to macro economic policy or, more specifi-
with historically high valuations in equity and
cally, the gradual removal of support and stimulus
bond markets, these factors are likely to lead to a
packages used to combat the impacts of
more volatile and lower-return period for financial
COVID-19.
markets in coming years.
In both the United States and the euro area, we
Our outlook presents the case for such an
expect growth to slow down to 4%. In the United
environment in the near to medium term by
Kingdom, we expect growth of about 5.5%, while
outlining the array of historically large and diverse
in China we expect growth to fall to about 5%.
policies enacted, estimating their impact, and
Across emerging markets, growth could prove
analyzing how the expected unwinding of these
uneven, aggregating to 5.5%.
policies will affect the economy and markets.
7

--- PAGE 8 ---
Policy matters: It was different this time scale, breadth, and duration of monetary support
In the years surrounding the global financial surpassed that of fiscal support as concerns over
crisis (GFC), macroeconomic policy drew a level fiscal policy’s adverse effects (inflation and debt
of attention not seen since the so-called Great loads, for example) led to more austere conditions
Moderation began in the mid-1980s. Before the sooner than some thought warranted, particularly
financial crisis, it was believed that the business in the euro zone.
cycle had been tamed, with less need for
significant policy support, either monetary Such considerations were put aside when the
or fiscal. need to address the COVID-19 pandemic’s health
and economic fallout became apparent. This
With the onset of the GFC, debates about the perhaps was not surprising given the scale of
magnitude, duration, and structure of policy the shock to the global economy, but it was
support needed to steer economies through the noteworthy nonetheless. Figure I-1 shows that
tumult were heated, with both sides presenting monetary support was implemented in markets
theoretical and mathematical support for their to magni tudes unthinkable before the pandemic.
views. Although the degree of monetary and fiscal Fiscal support, too, was historic in its magnitude,
support during the GFC was unprecedented, the and duration.
FIGURE I-1
A macroeconomic policy experiment in real time
60% Fiscal stimulus Monetary stimulus
Equity, loans, guarantees Reserve lending
49.8%
Other stimulus Asset purchases
Worker support
40
36.0% 35.3%
23.5%
21.2% 19.9%
20
5.0%
0
U.S. U.K. Euro area China U.S. Federal Bank of European
Reserve England Central Bank
PDG
9102
fo
egatnecreP
Notes: All stimulus percentages are based on 2019 Nominal GDP. Fiscal stimulus: For worker support for the euro area, an average of spending for Germany, Italy, and Spain is
used to estimate aggregate European Union support. For equity, loans, and guarantees, an average across Germany, Italy, Spain, and France is used for an EU aggregate estimate.
For the U.K., total spending on unemployment benefits and furlough (for both employed and self-employed individuals) is used. For the U.S., we obtained the data from the
Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget. For China, we obtained the data from the Ministry of Finance and State Taxation Administration. Across all regions, worker support
includes income support and direct payments. Other stimulus includes tax policy, state and local funding, health care spending, and other spending. Equity, loans, and guarantees
include the loans and grant spending. Monetary stimulus: For the euro area, asset purchases during the pandemic were conducted under the Pandemic Emergency Purchase
Programme (PEPP) and the pre-pandemic Asset Purchase Programme (APP). Reserves were made available through targeted longer-term refinancing operations (TLTROs).
For the U.K., assets were purchased by the Asset Purchase Facility and reserves made available through the Term Funding Scheme with extra incentives. For the U.S., we include
asset purchases under quantitative easing and the peak amount disbursed under various emergency lending facilities.
Sources: Bloomberg, dw.com, Office for National Statistics, International Monetary Fund, and Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget (see covidmoneytracker.org/explore-
data/interactive-table) and Clarida, Burcu, and Scotti, 2021).
8

--- PAGE 9 ---
Monetary policy: Change amid uncertainty to the risk of higher expectations of inflation
Although much work remains to be done to feeding through into more persistent shifts in
combat COVID-19, particularly in emerging wage and price increases.2
markets, most developed-market central
banks (as of this writing) have announced plans Amid the pandemic uncertainty, some developed-
to start gradually removing monetary stimulus market central banks shifted their approach to
(Figure I-2).1 As that accommodation is removed, policymaking to try to more consistently achieve
monetary conditions in the world will remain their inflation targets. Rather than aim for an
highly accom modative but become less so explicit target of 2% or close to it, the U.S. Federal
over time. Reserve would now seek to achieve average
inflation of 2% over time or more explicitly allow
Inflationary pressures have sharpened the for above-target inflation after periods of weaker
focus on monetary policymakers and may drive price growth. The European Central Bank
changes in policy actions and how they are announced a shift to a symmetric 2% target.
communicated. However, as long as evidence These shifts, in general, signal a desire by
points to these pressures being transient, central policymakers to tolerate inflation that runs
banks will not overreact, and will remain vigilant above their pre-pandemic target range.
FIGURE I-2
The long and winding road to normalcy
The removal of monetary accommodation will be gradual
2021 2022 2023 2024 2025
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
U.S. Federal Reserve
Pandemic Emergency Purchase Overall quantitative easing (QE)
Programme (PEPP) expected to end expected to end
European Central Bank
Bank of England
“Fighting retreat” data-dependent policy
People’s Bank of China
Tighten Macro Reduce pace Balance Shrink Lift
credit policy of asset sheet stops balance rates
growth loosens purchases growing sheet
Notes: Vanguard assessments are as of November 1, 2021, and are of actions taken or likely to be taken by the U.S. Federal Reserve, the Bank of England, the European Central
Bank, and the People’s Bank of China. Under a “fighting retreat” mode, China’s government would accept that growth will need to slow down, but at a gradual pace. If the
deceleration is gradual, the government will not intervene and instead will focus on reforms and financial stability. But if the pace is rapid and creates market panic, the government
will fight against the trend to stabilize the growth. This will allow the government to engineer a smooth deleveraging process and soft landing.
Source: Vanguard, as of November 1, 2021.
1 Emerging-market and some developed-market central banks have already either started removing accommodation (for example, by tapering or ceasing asset purchases) or
are expected to start raising rates earlier than previously anticipated, primarily as a result of higher-than-expected spot inflation and the resulting rise in medium- to long-
term inflation expectations.
2 Overall, the main factors pushing up inflation in 2021 are (1) higher demand as economies reopen, (2) labor and materials shortages, (3) higher energy prices, especially in
Europe, (4) expansionary fiscal and monetary policies through the pandemic, and (5) other factors related to pandemic-induced distortions. These pressures are expected to
ease over 2022. A major risk to this view is if these pressures more permanently affect wage negotiations, which could fuel more persistent price increases.
9

--- PAGE 10 ---
Future policy decisions must also consider the turn would remain closer to the theoretical floor of
drop in developed-market neutral rates.3 Since the zero lower bound.4 The factors that drove the
well before even the GFC, global neutral rates drop in neutral rates (Figure I-3b) are unlikely to
have been falling (Figure I-3a). This presents abate materially over the coming years. However,
challenges for policymakers, as the monetary we can see some of these trends reversing, thereby
policy stance is calibrated in tandem with the pushing up neutral rates moderately in the future
estimate of neutral rates. If neutral rates are low, (Figure I-3b).
they act as an anchor for policy rates, which in
FIGURE I-3
A secular decline in neutral rates
a. Low neutral rates have been decades in the making
8%
Neutral rate
6
4
Australia
2 United Kingdom
Median
0
United States
Germany
–2
1982 1987 1992 1997 2002 2007 2012 2017
b. Multiple factors have driven this decline
Productivity Demographics Risk aversion Income inequality Price of capital Savings glut
–0.05
Contribution
to change in
neutral rate,
percentage
points –0.50
–2.14 –0.31
–0.16
–0.74
Total change in neutral rate
–3.90
Notes: Figure I-3b shows the drivers of the change in the median neutral rate for 24 developed markets included in Figure I-3a. We work with data from 1982 to 2021. We estimate
the long-run cointegrating relationship via fully modified OLS (ordinary least squares) of the real short-term interest rates as well as six factors that we believe have driven the
neutral rate: productivity (as measured by total factor productivity, or TFP, growth); demographics (as measured by the share of the working-age population aged 15 to 24);
risk aversion (as measured by the spread in 10-year yields for BAA-rated bonds and Treasuries); income inequality (as measured by top 10% to bottom 50%); the relative price of
capital (as measured by the price of equipment and machinery to consumption); and the savings glut (as measured by the current account percentage GDP in China). The long-run
cointegrating relationship is the source of our neutral rate estimate for each country.
Source: Vanguard, as of November 1, 2021.
3 The neutral (or natural) rate of interest is the real interest rate that would prevail when the economy is at full employment and stable inflation; it is the rate at which
monetary policy is neither expansionary nor contractionary.
4 As short-term interest rates reach the zero lower bound, further monetary easing becomes difficult, leading to the need for unconventional monetary policy, such as large-
scale asset purchases (quantitative easing).
10

--- PAGE 11 ---
Although low neutral rates may mean that bond balance sheets. As shown in Figure I-4, sustained
investors need not fear interest rates, it may also fiscal spending could push inflation higher, adding
mean that addressing the next downturn could to the concerns of central bank policymakers.
present additional challenges to monetary The upside is that central banks appeared willing
policymakers. Another issue central bankers to deploy creative solutions to a litany of issues
would need to grapple with is the increasing during the most recent downturn and would likely
deficit spending implemented to counter the stand readyto do so again.
pandemic’s impact on household and business
FIGURE I-4
Deficit spending over an extended period puts additional pressure on policymakers
3.0
2.5
2.0
1.5
1.0
0.5
0.0
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029 2030
11
egnahc
raey-no-raey
,ECP
eroC
)ycneuqerf
ylretrauq(
4.5%
4.0
3.5 Vanguard
forecast
Sustained
5% deficit
Fed model
baseline
(FRB/US)
Core PCE actual
Notes: The figure uses U.S. core Personal Consumption Expenditures (PCE), which exclude volatile food and energy costs. The FRB/US baseline assumes a normalizing budget
deficit in the 2%–3% range over the forecast horizon (out to 2030). The sustained 5% deficit scenario assumes a persistent 5% budget deficit throughout the forecast horizon
(out to 2030).
Sources: Federal Reserve Bank of New York FRB/US macroeconomic model, Refinitiv, and Vanguard, as of October 31, 2021.

--- PAGE 12 ---
Fiscal policy: Bridging a gap measures enacted during the pandemic. More
Figure I-1 outlined the myriad approaches to fiscal broadly, the most lasting impact of the pandemic-
support enacted in response to the pandemic. driven fiscal packages will be higher levels of debt
Given the need to shut down major portions of to gross domestic product (GDP) ratios.
their economies, developed-market governments
with the means to do so focused their support on High debt levels, particularly for countries
labor markets and businesses in affected that issue it in their own currencies, are not in
industries. themselves an issue. Indeed, government debt
can represent an efficient mechanism for
Unlike stimulus packages enacted in response financing capital expenditure that delivers
to prior recessions that targeted an increase in economic and social benefits over an extended
output via the business sector, this time programs period. But high debt caused by excessive current
were designed to inject funds directly into house- spending represents an inappropriate build-up of
hold and business balance sheets. If industries macroeconomic and financial burdens on future
were shuttered and workers told to stay home, generations. So it is clear that governments
as they were during the pandemic, the response cannot continue to borrow and spend in perpetuity
needed to be—and was—much different. and debt levels can become excessive. In that
context, there is no specific debt level at which
One of the most notable changes came in Europe growth or other macroeconomic fundamentals
when, after years of discussion and debate, are suddenly impaired. The discussion should
European Union officials issued supranational focus on debt sustainability, which differs by
debt aimed at supporting specific needs of country based on several factors, some of which
individual countries while being backed by the are outlined in Figure I-5.
collective group. As with monetary policy, there
are likely to be legacy effects of fiscal policy
FIGURE I-5
Broadening the debt discussion: Debt sustainability metrics in advanced economies
U.S. U.K. France Japan Italy Canada Germany
Lower value is
Net debt to GDP ratio 109.0 97.2 106.1 172.3 144.2 37.0 52.5
more sustainable
Interest payments as a Lower value is
1.6 1.1 0.8 0.3 2.7 0.2 0.3
percentage of GDP more sustainable
Lower value is
Interest rate growth differential –2.3 –2.8 –2.3 –1.0 –0.5 –3.6 –2.8
more sustainable
Higher value is
Projected primary surplus/deficit –3.1 –2.4 –2.8 –2.0 0.3 –0.1 0.8
more sustainable
Lower value is
Tax to GDP ratio 30.0 35.7 52.5 33.6 47.9 40.1 46.1
more sustainable
Interest payment as a share Lower value is
5.8 3.5 2.2 0.9 4.8 5.3 1.8
of tax revenue more sustainable
Unsustainable debt Sustainable debt
Notes: For calculations, Net debt to GDP ratio = Debt/GDP; interest payments as a percentage of GDP = i/GDP; interest rate growth differential = i-g (both are in real terms);
tax to GDP ratio = Tax/GDP; interest payment as a share of tax revenue = i/tax. All are 2021 forecasts. Projected primary surplus/deficits are taken as International Monetary Fund
forecast averages from 2023 to 2026.
Sources: International Monetary Fund and Vanguard, as of September 2021.
12

--- PAGE 13 ---
The experiences of 2011 and the European As Figure I-6 shows, debt limits differ for each
debt crisis made policymakers wary of enacting country. Countries should not seek to approach
austerity measures to reduce high debt levels these limits, as they mark a level at which default
too quickly or sharply.5 However, high debt becomes highly likely—such that even before the
burdens and the deficit spending that drives them limit is reached, one would expect financial and
need to be addressed if the cost of government economic unease. This could extend into social
financing is not to increase because of increased unrest if implemented austerity measures are
difficulty to fund it in sovereign debt markets. sufficiently harsh, as happened in Greece during
But the timing and scope of such austerity the European debt crisis (Ponticelli and Voth, 2020).
measures (for example, tax increases or spending
cuts or both) must be considered along with the
factors outlined in Figure I-5 and the impact on FIGURE I-6
Pushing the limit(s): Stylized debt limits
social unrest. That is where the concept of fiscal
under alternative assumptions
space comes in (Ostry et al., 2010, and Zandi,
Cheng, and Packard, 2011).
Increasing interest burden
Interest rate growth
Fiscal space is a concept that estimates how (r–g) differential
Current
much more debt a country can issue before
debt/GDP 1.0% 1.5% 2.0% 2.5%
reaching a tipping point. Absent unprecedented
U.S. 103% 508% 338% x x
changes in fiscal policy, it is estimated that
crossing that level would trigger a debt crisis. U.K. 104 831 554 415% 332%
Rather than identifying one absolute level of Australia 62 693 462 346 272
debt, this measure accounts for factors such Germany 69 1,080 720 540 432
as interest rates, reserve currency status, and a
Japan 256 x x x x
country’s history of tax and spending policies in
Unsustainable debt Sustainable debt
identifying a level of unsustainable debt/GDP.
Beyond these maximum debt levels, faith in that Notes: The results are obtained from a stylized Primary Balance Reaction Function
country’s willingness and ability to service its for the U.S., U.K., Australia, Germany, and Japan, specified using a logistic form
and altered according to the maximum attainable primary surplus, combined with
debt burden erodes, with detrimental implications differing values for r-g. The red X’s indicate debt that is on an unsustainable path at
for economic fundamentals and financial markets. the given r-g level. This applies particularly for Japan (which has a very high debt/GDP
ratio). For r-g even as low as 1%, the debt/GDP ratio must be lower than current levels
for debt to be sustainable. As interest rate burdens increase from left to right, the level
of sustainable debt/GDP ratio for various regions is estimated to decline.
Sources: International Monetary Fund and Vanguard, as of September 21, 2021.
5 In 2011, a deepening sovereign debt crisis prompted the deployment of bailouts with stringent fiscal conditions and made European policymakers wary of enacting
austerity measures.
13

--- PAGE 14 ---
Addressing high debt levels is possible without Some countries already enjoy a primary balance
inducing social unrest. Such policies would typically that would allow their debt to remain sustainable
involve a combination of factors, including under current assumptions. A modest reduction
macroeconomic policy to affect inflation and should be sufficient for now, for those that must
growth as well as changes to tax and spending make policy changes, including the U.S. But as
policies (Boz and Tesar, 2021). Policymakers have time goes on and interest rates rise and deficits
the most control over this latter set of changes, persist, the need for change becomes more
which determine a country’s primary fiscal pertinent and difficult. As the pandemic fades,
balance. Figure I-7 shows that such changes, countries should begin addressing these
provided they are enacted in a timely manner, dislocations or they will face greater pain in
could help achieve sustainability. The shaded the future, and their ability to address crises
circles in the figure show the current projected or recessions with fiscal policy will continue
primary balance for a selection of developed- to deteriorate.
market economies, and the empty circles show
the estimated primary balance, based on the
fiscal space framework, that a country will need
to achieve sustainability.
FIGURE I-7
Low rates provide some breathing space, but debt sustainability is a looming concern
Reduction or increase in deficit consistent with stable debt
Reduction in deficit Increase in deficit
consistent with stable debt consistent with stable debt
Percentage –3.0
of GDP –2.7 –2.6 –2.9
–0.51
2026
–0.38
projected 0.50
deficit –2.4 –2.0
–2.3
–0.16 –2.1
–1.8 –1.5
3.24
Tightening
required
–0.6
Primary
2.47 deficit
2026
stable Balanced budget
debt 1.24
deficit Primary
0.4
surplus
0.7
0.9
U.S. France Japan U.K. Canada Italy Germany
Notes: Units are presented as a percentage of GDP. A negative interest rate growth differential (r-g) allows some countries, such as the U.S., France, and Japan, to run a deficit
while sustainably servicing interest burdens. Countries with a positive interest rate growth differential must maintain a debt surplus in order to maintain stable debt dynamics.
Stable debt refers to debt levels (surplus or deficit) that keep debt on a controlled path.
Sources: International Monetary Fund and Vanguard, as of September 21, 2021.
14

--- PAGE 15 ---
Counterfactuals: What could have been? down, as well as associated falls in demand as
We’ve outlined some of the extraordinary consumer confidence fell. As a result, it was clear
measures that monetary and fiscal policymakers that output and labor markets would feel severe
have taken to try to offset the impact of the adverse effects from interventions to stop the
pandemic-driven economic shutdown. Some of spread of COVID-19, governments intervened
these measures will be rolled back and, hopefully, swiftly and forcefully with untested policies.
will not be necessary again. But their effects, The ensuing months revealed the benefits and
such as higher debt levels, will persist, at least costs of such measures.
in the medium term. Others, such as average
inflation targeting, are likely to remain as policy In the U.S., for instance, fiscal policymakers
features going forward. But what if these policies agreed to combat the possible deterioration
had not been enacted? of household balance sheets as a result of job
losses with levels of support previously unheard
During a typical downturn, incomes fall because of, including stimulus checks and additional
of job losses, resulting in a drop in demand, which unemployment insurance payments. Figure I-8
then leads to overcapacity and then to supply cuts, shows that, counterintuitively, certain measures
resulting in more job losses and so on until some of income in the U.S., instead of falling, rose
form of monetary or fiscal intervention interrupts during the downturn—a pattern similar, though
the cycle. This time, the downturn was far from not in terms of magnitude, to that following the
typical, with large enforced falls in productive financial crisis.
potential as sectors of the economy were shut
FIGURE I-8
Incomes rose substantially in the U.S. during the downturn
a. Change in disposable income from
pre-COVID-19 trend
20%
15
10
5
0
–5
–10
Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3
2019
emocni
elbasopsiD
b. Change in disposable income during the global
financial crisis
3%
2
1
0
U.S. –1
Euro –2
area
–3
U.K.
–4
China
–5
–6
Global 1 2 3 4 5 6
2020 2021 financial
crisis onset
Quarters since GFC onset
emocni
elbasopsiD
U.S.
China
Euro
area
U.K.
Notes: In Figure I-8a, data are from Q4 2019 through Q3 2021 for all regions. In Figure I-8b, data are from Q1 2008 to Q3 2009 for the U.S., euro area, and U.K. and from Q2 2007
to Q4 2008 for China.
Sources: Vanguard calculations, using data from Bloomberg, Macrobond, and Refinitiv.
15

--- PAGE 16 ---
Although households may not have experienced inflationary pressures, driving inflation to levels
the same degree of economic pain during this not seen in decades, particularly in the U.S.
downturn as they did during others—particularly (Figure I-9). Some would argue that a reasonable
considering the high unemployment levels—these degree of upward pressure on inflation is long
policies were not without costs. Global supply overdue, but few would consider current U.S.
constraints and rebounding demand, once inflation rates sustainable.6 Our projections
business restrictions were lifted, resulted in indicate inflationary pressures subsiding, though
elevated inflation rates. The injections of stimulus staying above central bank targets as we move
and income support policies further stoked these toward year-end 2022.
FIGURE I-9
How long will high inflation last?
6%
5
4
3
2
1
0
–1
2019 2020 2021 2022
6 This is particularly so considering the reasoning behind central banks’ shift to average inflation targeting.
egnahc
raey-no-raey
,IPC
eroC
U.S.
U.S. forecast
U.K.
U.K. forecast
Euro area
Euro-area forecast
China
China forecast
Note: Data and Vanguard forecasts are for year-on-year percentage changes in the core Consumer Price Index, which excludes volatile food and energy prices. Actual inflation is
through September 2021 for the U.S., U.K., and China and through October 2021 for the euro area. Vanguard forecasts are presented thereafter.
Sources: Vanguard calculations, using data from Bloomberg and Refinitiv.
16

--- PAGE 17 ---
Absent the fiscal policies outlined in Figure I-1, Figure I-10a shows that during this most recent
our financial and business environment would be downturn, the rate of business insolvencies
much different and more akin to what we faced actually declined as the pandemic wore on, thanks
coming out of the GFC. During that crisis, as in to the measures taken by fiscal and monetary
most downturns, business insolvencies and authorities. Business investment did suffer
closures spiked as financing became difficult (Figure I-10b), but not nearly as much as expected
while revenues fell amid a lack of demand. given economic conditions.
FIGURE I-10
An unorthodox recessionary business environment
a. Insolvencies fell during the downturn
40%
30
20
10
0
–10
–20
–30
March June September December March June September December March
2019 2019 2019 2019 2020 2020 2020 2020 2021
raey
no
raeY
Actual Counterfactual
b. Businesses held back on investment, but not as much as expected
20%
10
0
–10
–20
September December March June September December March June
2019 2019 2020 2020 2020 2020 2021 2021
raey
no
raeY
Actual Counterfactual
Notes: The bars in I-10a represent the growth in business insolvencies globally. We take the GDP weighted average of bankruptcy growth across the U.S., the U.K., France,
Germany, Japan, and Australia to get the actual global aggregate (solid bars). The counterfactual scenario (dotted bars), representing what might have happened if policymakers
had not taken the steps they did, is constructed based on the relationship between unemployment and business failures during the global financial crisis. The bars in I-10b represent
the growth in global business investment . We take the GDP weighted average of business growth across the U.S., the U.K., France, Germany, Japan, and Australia to get actual
(solid bars) business investment across regions. The counterfactual scenario (dotted bars) is constructed based on the relationship between unemployment and business
investment during the global financial crisis.
Sources: Vanguard calculations, based on data from Reuters and Moody’s, as of September 30, 2021.
17

--- PAGE 18 ---
Clearly, this most recent downturn and rebound Global macroeconomic policy shifts will thus
have been unlike any other in ways that go far guide the course of the world economy through
beyond the economic and market environment. the next year. However, we see a common thread
For this reason we hesitate to go so far as to of risk across regions tied to the fate of the global
say that such policy support will be necessary or supply recovery. Even as policy shifts gears, some
should be implemented during the next recession. uncertainty remains about supply normalization.
That said, global economies and financial markets Figure I-11 describes three possible states of the
would look much different had policymakers not global economy. Our central case is one in which
taken the steps they did. global demand stays robust while supply gradually
recovers, still keeping moderate upward pressure
on price inflation.
FIGURE I-11
Global scenarios
Baseline Downside risk Upside surprise
Immunity gap Continued progress on herd immunity Stalled progress on herd immunity Continued progress on herd immunity
in major economies by end of 2021. by end of 2021. in major economies by end of 2021,
emerging markets through 2022.
Consumer/ Social and business activity normalize Social and business activity hampered Social and business activity surpass
business by early 2022. through 2022. pre-pandemic levels by early 2022.
reluctance gap
COVID-19 New mutations and vaccine New mutations and vaccine New mutations subside and
distribution issues subside, closing the distribution issues persist, prolonging distribution efficiencies emerge.
immunity gap by early 2022. immunity gap well into 2022.
Labor market Unemployment rate falling through High and sustained unemployment Unemployment rate falling just above
year-end 2022. results in permanent labor market NAIRU rates by end of 2022.
scarring.
Inflation Inflation moves back toward target Inflation overshoots and maintains Inflation falls below target toward
from above. upward trajectory through 2022. year-end 2022.
Policy Central bank policies meet mandates Central banks are behind the curve, Central bank policies meet mandates
despite unease. Additional fiscal and additional fiscal support would as supply expands to meet rising
support not necessary. prove inflationary. demand. Additional fiscal support
not necessary.
Growth Global growth averages Global growth averages close to Global growth averages close to
4.6% for 2022. 3.4% for 2022. 5.5% for 2022.
Demand Demand > Supply Demand > Supply Demand = Supply
versus supply
Demand and supply both increase Demand and supply both decrease Demand and supply both increase
60% 30% 10%
Probability
Notes: Historical global GDP data is taken from Bloomberg Economics estimates. Global growth estimates are derived from Vanguard forecasts, where growth numbers for the
regions we forecast (the U.S., U.K., euro area, China, Australia, Japan, and Canada) are combined with IMF forecasts for Sub-Saharan Africa, Latin America, and the Middle East
and Central Asia. Pre-virus trend is the average quarterly growth rate from 2013 to 2019. NAIRU refers to the nonaccelerating inflation rate of unemployment.
Sources: Vanguard model estimates, based on data from Reuters, Bloomberg, Bloomberg Economics, Macrobond, and the International Monetary Fund.
18

--- PAGE 19 ---
United States: Constraints pose threat FIGURE I-12
U.S. growth: Slowing but still robust
as pandemic loosens grip on the economy
Although health outcomes continue to influence
our near-term views for the U.S., the focus has
shifted toward policy normalization. In 2021,
growth has slowed after the initial rebound,
inflation has remained elevated, and employment
growth has progressed more moderately than
anticipated.
Economic activity has breached its pre-pandemic
level and, by our assessment, is on track to
overshoot its pre-pandemic trend by early 2022—
a significant achievement given the depth of the
shock experienced. Overall, we expect GDP
growth of 4% over the course of 2022. Figure I-12
illustrates our assessment that conditions for
growth continue to appear favorable. Broadly,
consumer balance sheets in aggregate are
healthy, having benefited from ample fiscal policy
support, delevered during the pandemic, built up
savings, and seen favorable wealth effects in
housing and asset prices.7 Further fiscal policy
support will also likely boost growth in 2022
and beyond.
7 Leverage, as measured by the the Federal Reserve Bank financial obligations ratio, dropped from 15% of disposable income in the fourth quarter of 2019 to 13.8% in the
second quarter of 2021. The household savings rate has averaged 15.7% during the pandemic (March 2020–September 2021) relative to a 7.5% trend pre-COVID. Household
net worth has increased 21% relative to the fourth quarter of 2019, and real estate wealth has risen 12%, as measured by Fed Flow of Funds data as of June 30, 2021.
egnahc
egatnecrep
evitalumuC
9102
rebmeceD
morf
slevel
PDG
ni
12% Upside
8
4 Pre-COVID-19 trend
Downside
0
–4
Baseline
–8
–12
Dec. Dec. Dec. Dec. Dec.
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
Notes: The y-axis represents the level impact from the baseline, which is
December 2019. The pre-COVID-19 trend assumes a 1.9% growth rate. The
baseline scenario assumes gradual normalization in supply-side constraints with
unemployment rates reaching close to 3.5% by year-end 2022. The downside scenario
is characterized by a lengthier persistence of current supply-side constraints, which
would continue to act as a significant drag on growth. In this scenario, inflation will
stay elevated as we view supply constraints dominating the demand impact on
inflation currently. The upside scenario is characterized by a speedy normalization of
supply-side constraints, which will allow demand to be more fully realized and allow
earlier easing of inflation pressures.
Sources: Vanguard and Refinitiv, as of November 30, 2021.
19

--- PAGE 20 ---
It has become clear, however, that unlike the these will normalize remains highly uncertain.
economy’s abrupt shutdown in early 2020 Figure I-13 shows the current severity of those
and sharp initial rebound in early 2021, a full constraints, well beyond the drag imposed during
reopening will likely be a drawn-out and uneven a typical late-cycle economy, bringing focus to the
process. Critically, supply-and-demand imbalances circumstances needed for them to improve.
have become more pronounced of late and
threaten to weigh on output and exacerbate Job growth has accelerated to finish 2021, but
inflation pressures in 2022, increasing the risk as we progress into 2022, we expect the pace to
that policymakers are late in withdrawing moderate as the supply of unemployed people
accommodation. seeking work is depleted and competition among
businesses intensifies to attract talent from
Shortages of labor and materials combined with other firms.
logistical bottlenecks resulting in elevated prices
have emerged as key risks, and how and when
FIGURE I-13
Labor shortages are acute at this point in the business cycle
March March March March March March March March March March
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021
0
–0.5
–1.0
Quarterly GDP lost from labor
–1.5 and supply constraints
–2.0
–2.5
–3.0
Labor
Supply
–3.5%
Notes: Output lost is measured as the percentage of quarterly gross domestic product that is forgone because of labor and supply constraints. Labor and supply shortages are
estimated using industry employment levels, net job openings (openings minus separations), and labor productivity. Industries with positive net job openings are assumed to be
experiencing labor constraints, and industries with positive net job openings but below-average labor productivity are assumed to be facing both labor and supply constraints.
Sources: Vanguard calculations, based on data from the Bureau of Economic Analysis and the Bureau of Labor Statistics, as of June 30, 2021.
20

--- PAGE 21 ---
Although some expect labor force re-entrants before the pandemic, more than half were
to completely fill the labor-supply gap shown in unanticipated.8 The unanticipated retirements
Figure I-13, the demographic landscape suggests have generally been those of older and wealthier
this is unlikely. Retirements have contributed workers previously employed in higher-wage
most to the decline in labor force participation industries and workers who originally expected to
since the pandemic started, with net retirements retire in coming years. Thus, we expect that only a
and unanticipated retirements totaling about fraction of these unanticipated retirees will return
2 million as of June 2021 (Figure I-14). Although to the labor force.
some of these retirements were planned even
FIGURE I-14
The labor force is unlikely to recover to pre-COVID levels
A very tight labor market
should entice the majority of
these workers back into the 20% Net retirements (652,000)
labor force by mid-2022 Reasons for leaving 45% Unanticipated retirements (1.5M)
the labor force 5% Family responsibilities (163,000)
since 2019 25% Not in labor force but want a job (815,000)
We expect that 75% of these
unanticipated retirees will still 5% Other (163,000)
be out of the labor force at
year-end 2023
Notes: Percentages represent the contribution to the overall decline in labor force participation. Net retirements refers to expected retirements minus new labor market entrants.
This is a normal labor market rotation that occurs as older workers retire and younger workers enter the labor force. This rotation will have a net negative effect on the labor force
from 2020 to 2025 because retirements will exceed new labor market entrants. Unanticipated retirements are retirements in excess of what our demographic models predicted—
workers who likely retired as a result of pandemic implications. Family responsibilities refers to those who are not working because they are caring for family. Other includes those
who have left the labor force to continue their education or because of a disability. All figures represent the change from the fourth quarter of 2019 through the second quarter
of 2021.
Sources: Vanguard calculations, based on data from the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, as of June 30, 2021.
8 The unanticipated decline in retirements is calculated by comparing the current data with our estimates from the proprietary labor force participation model described in
Patterson et al. (2019).
21

--- PAGE 22 ---
This paradox of elevated labor demand and weak
labor force growth suggests that the official
unemployment rate will reach the pre-pandemic
low of 3.5% in mid-2022 but that the labor force
participation rate may peak nearly a percentage
point lower than its 63.3% level of February 2020.
Such a scenario as shown in Figure I-15, in which
the labor market proves tighter than previously
anticipated, would present significant challenges
for the Fed in assessing the appropriate time to
begin raising its policy rate, further exacerbated
by still-elevated inflation. These conditions form
the core of the 2022 risks we outlined earlier.
FIGURE I-15
U.S. to reach full-employment range
by mid-2022
etar
tnemyolpmenU
Recently, elevated inflation has raised questions
about its persistence, which could dampen the
recovery and risk Fed action earlier than expected.
We estimate that the effects from supply
constraints will persist well into early 2022 before
we see inflation normalizing gradually toward the
pre-pandemic trend. These factors contribute to
our expectations that inflation will stay elevated
for some time before slowing in the second
half of next year, bringing the Core Personal
Consumption Expenditures Price Index for
year-end 2022 in the range of 2.3%–2.6% year
over year.
Based on our understanding of the Fed’s liftoff
criteria, we expect them to focus on two key
aspects of the economy: (1) labor market
conditions improving to the point of full employ-
ment and (2) inflation to be sustainably at or
Period of moderately above 2%.9 Given our labor market
6%
accelerated
job growth estimates, we expect to be within range of full
employment by the second half of 2022; at that
5
point, it will be difficult for the Fed to justify
holding off on rate hikes through the end of the
4
year. We say “within range” of full employment
given the ambiguous nature of such a threshold,
3 Full-employment
range particularly as the Fed has communicated a
desire to factor in a wide array of variables in
2
June Jan. June Jan. making its assessment.
2021 2022 2022 2023
Note: The dotted line depicts the Vanguard headline (U-3) unemployment
rate forecast.
Sources: Vanguard forecast and calculations, based on Refinitiv data, as of
September 30, 2021.
9 See The Federal Reserve’s New Framework: Context and Consequences, remarks delivered November 16, 2020, by Fed Vice Chair Richard H. Clarida; available at federalreserve.
gov/newsevents/speech/clarida20201116a.htm.
22

--- PAGE 23 ---
Euro area: Accommodative monetary FIGURE I-16
Euro-area growth set to limit long-run scarring
policy set to continue despite
inflationary pressures
In the first quarter of 2021, the euro-area
economy slipped into recession for the second
time since the pandemic began. Strict lockdowns
across the region constrained supply, and
consumer demand remained weak. In addition,
initial vaccine production and distribution
disruptions as well as relatively high vaccine
hesitancy delayed the start of the vaccination
rollout compared with other developed markets.
The vaccination pace accelerated substantially
in the second quarter, leading to a broad-based
easing of restrictions and supporting a strong
bounce-back in activity over subsequent months.
In the third quarter, output was only about
0.5% below the level attained at the end of 2019
(Figure I-16). Economic momentum, however, has
since slowed as the reopening boost continues to
moderate, amplified by slowing global growth,
intensifying supply-chain disruptions, and more
recently a tightening of restrictions due to the
emergence of the Omicron variant. Overall, the
euro-area economy is anticipated to have grown
by 5% in 2021, in line with our prediction in our
2021 outlook.
Looking ahead to 2022, we expect infection- and
vaccine-acquired immunity to remain relatively
successful in mitigating the pressure on hospital
systems,10 which will allow for a continued
economic recovery. In our central scenario, we
expect that the euro-area economy will grow
by 4% in 2022, and that by the end of 2022, GDP
will be only about 0.5% below the trajectory we
expected pre-COVID.
10 Based on information available on the Omicron variant as of November 30, 2021.
egnahc
egatnecrep
evitalumuC
9102
rebmeceD
morf
slevel
PDG
ni
10%
Upside
5
Pre-COVID-19 trend
0
Downside
–5
–10
Baseline
–15
–20
Dec. Dec. Dec. Dec. Dec.
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
Notes: The y-axis represents the level impact from the baseline, which is
December 2019. The pre-virus trend assumes an annual growth rate of 1.1%.
Downside risks include new virus mutations that are resistant to the latest vaccines
and a renewed COVID-19 wave in winter that raises consumers’ reluctance to engage
in social activities. Higher-than-anticipated energy prices and taxes that squeeze
household disposable incomes pose further downside risks, as do larger or more
persistent global supply-chain disruptions. Upside risks include a faster-than-expected
drawdown in household savings that would fuel greater consumption spending. A
more rapid unwinding of industrial bottlenecks is also possible, and that would benefit
the euro area disproportionately, as manufacturing makes up almost 17% of its GDP,
in contrast to just 11% for the U.S.
Sources: Bloomberg, Eurostat, and Vanguard, as of November 2, 2021.
The risks to this view are skewed to the downside.
They include new virus mutations that are resistant
to the latest vaccines, raising consumer’s reluctance
to engage in social activities. In particular, the
Omicron variant could have more substantial
negative effects on economic activity than
currently expected. Higher-than-anticipated
energy prices and taxes that squeeze household
disposable incomes pose further downside risks,
as do larger or more persistent global supply-
chain disruptions. Upside risks include a faster-
than-expected drawdown in household savings
that would fuel greater consumption spending.
A more rapid unwinding of industrial bottlenecks
is also possible, and that would benefit the euro
area disproportionately, as manufacturing makes
up almost 17% of the bloc’s GDP, in contrast to
just 11% for the U.S.
23

--- PAGE 24 ---
In 2021, inflation reached levels not seen since FIGURE I-17
the GFC, with headline inflation reaching 4.1% in Euro-area inflation pressures are
October compared with a year earlier. In recent concentrated in the goods sector
months, a surge in energy prices due to natural
gas shortages put substantial upward pressure Difference from 2014 to 2019 average inflation rate
on inflation. As has been the case across most –4 0 4 8 12%
developed economies, inflation pressure has been
Electricity and fuel
concentrated in the goods sector, while services
Operation of vehicles
inflation has remained subdued. Importantly, we
Vehicles
see the factors driving up inflation as largely
Headline inflation
transitory. We anticipate that inflation will fall
Household maintenance
below its current level by mid-2022, while staying
slightly elevated above its 2014–2019 average Household equipment
(Figure I-17). A major risk to this view is if price Other
pressures feed into expectations and wage Communications
negotiations, which could fuel a more persistent Water and sewage
increase in inflation and put pressure on central Clothing
bank policy.
Restaurants
Education
The ECB in 2021 concluded its strategy review,
Rent
the first in almost two decades. Key changes
Food
included a shift to a symmetric 2% target—
Accommodation
compared with the previous “below but close
Alcohol
to 2%” wording (for more details, see the
earlier section “Monetary policy: Change amid Health
uncertainty”)—and an ambitious climate- Transport services
related action plan. Recreational and culture
Current Mid-2022 projection
Notes: The figure shows the three-month average of the year-over-year rate of
inflation for various sectors as of September 2021 in terms of its deviation from the
2014–2019 average. The vertical bars represent projections of this deviation for
mid-2022.
Sources: Bloomberg, Eurostat, and Vanguard, as of November 2, 2021.
24

--- PAGE 25 ---
The ECB is expected to reduce its pace of asset justified by the ECB’s relatively sanguine medium-
purchases under the Pandemic Emergency term inflation outlook, but higher-than-anticipated
Purchase Programme starting in the fourth inflation mixed with supply constraints may
quarter of 2021, and PEPP purchases are likely to pressure policymakers. Despite recent shocks,
stop in the first half of 2022. Asset purchases will inflation is expected to fall below the ECB’s newly
nonetheless continue far beyond that. Similarly, explicit 2% target by the end of its forecasting
we don’t currently expect rate hikes over at least horizon. We expect an expansion of the pre-
the next 24 months—a timeline that differs pandemic Asset Purchase Programme to smooth
markedly from current market pricing. This highly the transition after the PEPP ends (Figure I-18).11
accommodative monetary policy stance is
FIGURE I-18
ECB to continue quantitative easing even after PEPP has come to an end
11 Potential newer programs that can selectively buy certain sovereign assets could complement the existing APP, which must purchase in proportion to a sovereign’s
economic size.
)noillib(
RUE
,sesahcrup
ylkeeW
45 Forecast
40
35
30
25
20 PEPP ends
15 PEPP
10 APP
5
0
March June Sept. Dec. March June Sept. Dec. March June Sept. Dec.
2020 2020 2020 2020 2021 2021 2021 2021 2022 2022 2022 2022
Notes: The Asset Purchase Programme (APP) is the pre-pandemic QE program run by the ECB. The Pandemic Emergency Purchase Programme (PEPP) is the emergency QE
program introduced in 2020.
Sources: Bloomberg and Vanguard, as of November 2, 2021.
25

--- PAGE 26 ---
The ECB partly facilitated highly expansionary FIGURE I-19
fiscal stances by national governments throughout Expected recovery fund contribution to GDP
the pandemic. Budget deficits remained high in growth per country
2021; they ranged from 8.6% to 10.2% in France,
Italy, and Spain and were about 7% in Germany.12
One benefit of the pandemic has been approval
of the NextGenerationEU package. Its centerpiece
is a 750-billion-euro recovery fund, designed to
help repair the pandemic-driven immediate
damage and to invest in a greener and more
digital Europe.13 The European Commission will
finance it, borrowing on the markets at more
favorable rates than many member states. The
funds will be distributed over the coming years
and are expected to moderately boost GDP by
about 20 to 40 basis points a year, with a larger
effect in Southern European economies
(Figure I-19). (A basis point is one-hundredth
of a percentage point.)
12 Deficit figures reflect the General Government Overall Balance, according to the International Monetary Fund’s Fiscal Monitor, October 2021.
13 This amount is commonly expressed in 2018 prices (and is about 800 billion euros in current prices, as of the third quarter of 2021).
stniop
egatnecreP
0.8
0.6
0.4
0.2
0
Germany France Italy Spain
2021 2022 2023 2024 2025
Notes: The graph shows the contribution of the recovery fund to GDP growth per
country. It is calculated as the difference in the fiscal impulse with and without the
recovery fund. The fiscal impulse is defined as the fiscal stance (the change in the
structural budget deficit) multiplied by a fiscal multiplier, which is assumed to be 0.7.
Sources: Vanguard, the International Monetary Fund Fiscal Monitor, and Bloomberg,
as of November 2, 2021.
26

--- PAGE 27 ---
United Kingdom: Bank is committed to FIGURE I-20
Recovery to decelerate but remain firm
firm but cautious tightening path
throughout 2022
In similar fashion to the euro area, the U.K.
economy experienced another downturn in
economic activity in early 2021 as the govern-
ment enacted a new lockdown to limit the spread
of COVID-19. Activity contracted sharply in the
first quarter, driven by a 4.4% drop in household
consumption from the previous quarter.
However, amid a successful vaccination rollout
and significant easing of restrictions, the U.K.
economy recovered strongly during mid-2021.
Consumer confidence returned, households drove
down part of their excess savings built up during
the pandemic, and many businesses reopened. In
the latter part of the year, momentum slowed as
the impulse from reopening faded and activity
became increasingly restrained by labor, material,
and energy shortages both in the U.K. and globally.
Despite this slowdown, we still expect annual
growth of about 7% in 2021, broadly in line with
our forecast in our 2021 outlook.
As we look ahead to 2022, the U.K. economy
will see growth challenges that will lower real
disposable incomes. These include the end of
the government-subsidized furlough program;
reduced unemployment benefits; and higher
taxes on income, consumption, and corporate
profits, as well as higher energy prices. However,
these drags on consumption will be at least
somewhat counteracted by robust wage growth
and households’ large stock of excess savings.
We therefore expect economic growth of 5.5%
in 2022. This would leave GDP about 2% below
its pre-pandemic trend (Figure I-20)—a greater
shortfall than that projected for the euro area,
mainly because the U.K. faces additional Brexit-
related headwinds.
14 The cap sets the maximum price an energy supplier can charge for electricity and gas.
egnahc
egatnecrep
evitalumuC
9102
rebmeceD
morf
slevel
PDG
ni
10%
Upside
5 Pre-COVID-19
trend
0
Downside
–5
–10
Baseline
–15
–20
–25
Dec. Dec. Dec. Dec. Dec.
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
Notes: The y-axis represents the level impact from the baseline, which is
December 2019. The pre-virus trend assumes an annual growth rate of 1.7%.
Downside risks include new virus mutations that are resistant to the latest vaccines
and a renewed COVID-19 wave in winter that raises consumers’ reluctance to engage
in social activities. Higher-than-anticipated energy prices and taxes that squeeze
household disposable incomes pose further downside risks, as do larger or more
persistent global supply-chain disruptions. Upside risks include a faster-than-expected
draw-down in household savings that would fuel greater consumption spending.
Sources: Bloomberg, the Office for National Statistics, and Vanguard, as of
November 2, 2021.
The annual inflation rate accelerated significantly
in 2021, from about 0.5% at the start of the year
to over 3% by September. This was driven by
increased demand as the economy reopened
and by a sharp rise in energy prices, among other
factors. As we enter 2022, inflation is set to rise
further amid higher food and gas prices, rising
pressures from non-energy industrial sectors such
as steel and chemicals, a quicker pass-through
from higher food prices, and a large April increase
in the energy price cap.14 We expect headline CPI
to peak between 4.5% and 5% in the first half of
2022 and approach 2.5% year over year by the
end of 2022.
27

--- PAGE 28 ---
The larger and more persistent inflation shock subsequent meeting. This would take the Bank
has raised concern among Monetary Policy Rate to 0.5%, allowing the central bank to
Committee (MPC) members at the Bank of commence balance-sheet runoff starting in the
England, some of whom worry that without second quarter of 2022. The quantitative easing
any central bank action, these dynamics will program will end in December 2021, as the bank
meaningfully spill over into medium-term has communicated (see the earlier section
inflation expectations. Policymakers, though, “Monetary policy: Change amid uncertainty”).
must balance the risk of inflation expectations
de-anchoring with a potential labor market
softening as the furlough program unwinds. FIGURE I-21
Labor market to remain strong despite
In our base case, as Figure I-21 illustrates, we
furlough’s end
expect only a modest rise in unemployment to
about 4.5% as most of the 1.3 million furloughed
workers are absorbed by the labor market by
the end of 2021. The employment outlook is
expected to remain strong, particularly as labor
demand appears ample, as evidenced by record
job vacancies.
We expect the MPC to begin raising interest
rates in December 2021, provided that October
labor market data are in line with our expectations.
This will serve to signal to investors that the
MPC is serious about fighting inflation and to
maintain credibility. If progress in the labor
market disappoints materially, or if there are
signs of a considerable slowdown in economic
activity because of the Omicron variant, then
we expect the first rate hike to be delayed till
February 2022. It will likely be followed by another
25-basis-point rate hike at the committee’s
etar
tnemyolpmenU
6%
5
Actual
4 Downside
Base case
3
Upside
2
1
0
Nov. Jun. Jan. Aug. Mar. Oct. May Dec.
2019 2020 2021 2021 2022 2022 2023 2023
Notes: The upside labor market scenario assumes that only 10% of currently
furloughed workers lose their jobs once the scheme ends and only 30% of these newly
unemployed workers stay in the labor force. The downside scenario assumes that
50% lose their jobs and 50% of the newly unemployed remain in the labor force. The
base case assumes a modest rise in unemployment to 4.8% as most of the 1.3 million
furloughed workers are absorbed by the labor market.
Sources: Bloomberg, the Office for National Statistics, Her Majesty’s Revenue and
Customs, and Vanguard, as of November 2, 2021.
28

--- PAGE 29 ---
China: Growth headwinds to intensify FIGURE I-22
No hard landing, but growth concerns to
amid transition toward a new
resurface
policy paradigm
Policy was a defining theme for China in 2021, 30%
Upside
with regulatory tightening ramping up across
20
all sectors of the economy, especially in property
and energy, amid the government’s desire to 10 Pre-COVID-19
promote “common prosperity” and carbon trend Downside
neutrality. Along with sporadic lockdowns 0
stemming from the COVID-19 Delta variant Baseline
–10
outbreak, the ongoing regulatory crackdown
pushed China’s growth below trend for most –20
Dec. Dec. Dec. Dec. Dec.
of the year, even though it was the first country
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
to normalize from the pandemic in 2020.
In 2022, we expect China’s growth to remain
under pressure, as uncertainty related to the
government’s “zero-COVID” lockdown strategy
will only be magnified by deepening regulatory
measures and the lack of a strong macro policy-
easing response.15 These headwinds are likely
to cap the growth rebound around 5%, leaving
an output gap of –1.1% by the end of the year
(Figure I-22). With the government likely to set
the growth target around 5%–6%, compared
with above 6% in 2021, this suggests that
policymakers will likely either tolerate a more
tepid recovery or unveil further stimulus
measures to support the economy.
15 The objective of this strategy is to keep transmission of the virus as close to zero as possible and, ultimately, to eliminate it entirely through strict lockdowns.
egnahc
egatnecrep
evitalumuC
9102
rebmeceD
morf
slevel
PDG
ni
Notes: The y-axis represents the level impact from the baseline, which is
December 2019. In the baseline scenario, we assume that current regulatory
tightening continues, albeit at a more prudent pace, while macro easing in the
form of fiscal and monetary stimulus picks up speed more notably starting in the
second quarter of 2022 after the National People’s Congress. The downside scenario
is characterized by a policy mistake in the form of overly aggressive regulatory
tightening and inadequate macro easing. A potential COVID resurgence leading to
additional containment measures under the “zero COVID” strategy also poses a
downside risk. The upside scenario would entail an acceleration of macro easing and a
pause in regulatory tightening alongside surging global demand for Chinese exports.
Sources: Vanguard, using data from Refinitiv, as of November 2, 2021.
29

--- PAGE 30 ---
Unlike most developed economies, which have Additionally, we accounted for potential wealth
gradually eased lockdowns as vaccination rates effects coming from a decline in property prices,
increase, China has maintained a strict zero- as property accounts for nearly 60% of Chinese
COVID lockdown strategy even though over households’ wealth, compared with 30% in the
70% of its population has been fully vaccinated, U.S. (Figure I-23). Our model suggests that the
making the economic reopening unsustainable total drag on growth could be around 2% in 2022,
and stifling the consumption and services sector. with effects potentially magnified should a déjà
As a case in point, household consumption has vu scenario of the 2014–2015 property downturn
remained significantly below its trend, dropping play out.
from –3.0% to –5.4% in the third quarter of
2021, in contrast with the U.S., which was 5%
above trend. The latest data suggest that a FIGURE I-23
Property market downturn to deepen in 2022
consumption recovery is underway and could
extend into next year. However, China’s decision
to stick with a zero-COVID strategy could pose Share of household wealth
100%
a risk to a full recovery in consumer activity and United
30.0% 43.0% 27.0%
growth, especially against a more complicated States
backdrop of heightened regulatory uncertainty.16
China 59.0% 20.4% 20.5%
Though implementing regulations to control
risks is not new in China, the recent crackdown
Housing Financial assets Other physical assets
is distinct in its scope. While previous regulatory
crackdowns primarily targeted old economy
Drag on China’s GDP
sectors, such as industrials and the property
market, the 2021 action was widespread across
Baseline 0.9% 0.5% 2.1%
both old and new economies, affecting close to
0.4% 0.2% 0.4%
50% of GDP. We believe that this reflects a
2014–2015
fundamental shift in the govern ment’s policy 1.8% 0.8% 1.1% 4.1%
déjà vu
goals, with the policy priority increasingly shifting
Direct effects Indirect effects
from efficiency to equity and from corporate
Residential Property Wealth Spillover
profitability to labor income. This regulatory property development effect to other
investment and related industries
campaign is unlikely to stop or reverse, even if the services
pace and magnitude may slow slightly in 2022.
Notes: We consider both real and financial impacts of the property crackdown on
Consequently, we expect a deepening of the
GDP. In the baseline scenario, we assume growth in property investment declines by
property and energy market downturn in the 10 percentage points from high single digits in 2021 to a modest contraction in 2022
and growth in property prices moderates by around 5 percentage points. We use
near term, as the government seeks to achieve
China’s input-output table to consider indirect effects such as the spillover impact
its common prosperity and decarbonization on upstream industries such as materials and metal products, as well as impacts via
the wealth effect channel. Under the downside scenario, where we see a replay of
goals by making housing more affordable and
the 2014–2015 property slowdown, we assume growth in property investment
the power supply more well-rationed. declines by close to 20 percentage points and growth property prices drop by
10 percentage points.
Sources: Vanguard, using data from Refinitiv, the People’s Bank of China, and the
We estimate both direct and indirect impacts on U.S. Federal Reserve, as of September 30, 2021.
GDP from a property downturn. Direct effects
include real estate investment and property-
related services and consumption, while indirect
effects pertain to spillovers into upstream
industries, such as materials and metal products,
that are highly sensitive to the property activity.
16 In contrast with the zero-COVID strategy, the living-with-COVID approach seeks to balance economic and societal concerns while minimizing hospitalizations and deaths,
with less focus on the number of infections.
30

--- PAGE 31 ---
Meanwhile, energy supply shocks as a result of FIGURE I-24
the government’s decarbonization efforts are Confidence in the privately led new economy
likely to continue restricting industrial production sector may be significantly affected by high
in 2022 in the lead-up to the Winter Olympics and regulation uncertainty
the National Party Congress. These regulatory
actions will not only directly affect activity and Change in New economy Old economy
annual growth
employment in the targeted sectors; they could in high- versus
low-regulation
also dampen overall business confidence and
regimes
investment, particularly in the new economy,
which tends to be more sensitive to the regula-
–0.6%
tory environment (Figure I-24). As a result, China
may not see a meaningful rebound in growth Nowcast
–1.0%
until the second quarter of 2022.
–1.3%
Notes: Vanguard’s Nowcast Index is designed to track China’s economic growth in
real time using a dynamic factor approach to weight economic and financial market
indicators, accounting for co-movement between the factors. The Nowcast comprises
two distinct economies. The old economy is based on state-owned enterprises;
low-end and heavy manufacturing industries such as textile, coal, steel, and concrete
production; and real estate. The new, consumer-driven economy is led by private
enterprises and based on domestic consumption, high-skill manufacturing, and
service industries.
Sources: Vanguard, using data from Refinitiv and the CEIC, as of September 30, 2021.
31

--- PAGE 32 ---
The upshot is that macro policy has the potential Engineering a smooth rebalancing in an environ-
to shift toward a more accommodative stance ment of shifting policy regimes will require
during this policy transition period, especially prudence to undercut risk but not overstifle
given its lagged and modest response to date. innovation, to promote equity but not at the
Accelerating the timing, pace, and magnitude expense of efficiency, and to regulate the private
of fiscal and monetary easing could pose upside sector but not completely revert to a state-
risks to our forecasts and would allow growth dominant model. A failure to balance these
to come in around trend of 5.5%, thereby helping conflicting forces could result in China stagnating
to close the output gap by the end of 2022. By like Japan in the longer term, with growth below
contrast, delayed and insufficient macro easing 2%. However, if successful, we see a bright future
could well push China’s growth lower than 4%. where China could escape the middle-income
That said, a hard-landing scenario of the trap and overtake the U.S. as the largest
economy appears quite unlikely given the economy in the world after 2050.
significant progress made toward addressing
demand-side imbalances over the last five years
(Figure I-25) (Wang, Schickling, and Yeo, 2021).
FIGURE I-25
Downside risks remain elevated, but we do not expect a hard landing
China’s emphasis on growth quality has reduced some demand-side headwinds over the past five years.
2015 2020–2021
Debt-to-GDP ratio (<) 251% 306%
Financial
imbalances
Five-year change in debt-to-GDP ratio (<) 55% 40%
Inventory-to-sales ratio (months) (<) 18.3 13.5
Overcapacity
reduction
Industry capacity utilization ratio (>) 74.6 78
Consumption versus investment share of GDP (>) 8% 11%
Economic
rebalancing
Service versus manufacturing share of GDP (>) 10% 17%
Foreign exchange (FX) reserves (USD trillion)* (>) 3.0 3.2
Macro policy
Total social financing growth trough to peak** (<) 5.1% 3%
cushion
Policy rate cuts** (<) 1.3% 0.3%
Five-year increase in margin trading (RMB billion) (<) 53.1 31.3
Asset price
Five-year increase in retail speculation (new trading accounts opened, million) (<) 2.6 0.5
appreciation
Property price growth year-over-year (Tier 1 city) (<) 19.9% 4.0%
Lower growth quality Higher growth quality
(>) indicates higher values lead to healthier and more sustainable growth prospects. (<) indicates lower values lead to healthier and more sustainable growth prospects.
* We compared 2016’s foreign exchange reserves with 2019, given that most of the 2015–2016 FX drain happened in the latter year.
** We compared the 2015–2016 easing cycle with the 2018–2019 easing cycle.
Notes: “Tier 1 city” refers to Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou, and Shenzen. Data for 2015 are as of December 31, 2015. Data for 2020–2021 are as of December 31, 2020, with the
exception of inventory-to-sales ratio, which is as of September 30, 2021.
Sources: The CEIC, China’s National Bureau of Statistics, Moody’s Analytics Data Buffet, the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development, the U.S. Bureau of
Economic Analysis, and Vanguard calculations.
32

--- PAGE 33 ---
Emerging markets: Recovery is underway, FIGURE I-26
Emerging-market GDP will likely remain
but with some hurdles
below pre-COVID trend
While developed-market economies rebounded
from the COVID-19 crisis via a combination of
vaccine rollouts and fiscal and monetary policy
support, emerging-market economies face a less
certain road to recovery in 2022. Although we
expect emerging-market growth to outpace
that of its developed-market counterparts, our
forecast for 7% growth in 2021 and 5.5% in 2022
is relatively sluggish given the 2020 downturn in
emerging markets as well as the pre-COVID
trend of growth (Figure I-26). Furthermore, risks
to our emerging-market growth forecast are
skewed to the downside, stemming from the
growing potential of earlier-than-expected
tightening of central bank policy in developed
markets, as well as continued virus vulnerability,
especially in emerging-market Asia.
egnahc
egatnecrep
evitalumuC
9102
rebmeceD
morf
slevel
PDG
ni
30%
Upside
20
10 Pre-COVID-19
trend Downside
0
Baseline
–10
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
Notes: The y-axis represents the level impact from the baseline, which is
December 2019. We assume a pre-COVID trend growth rate of 5.3%. The upside
forecast assumes faster than pre-COVID trend growth in 2022 because of a global
growth upswing and better-than-expected health progress. The downside forecast
assumes growth slightly below the 2019 pace in 2022 because of disruptive inflation
and developed-market central bank tightening.
Sources: Vanguard calculations, based on International Monetary Fund data. Data
are through the second quarter of 2021. The forecasts are as of October 31, 2021.
33

--- PAGE 34 ---
After a slow start, certain emerging-market Moreover, booster shot requirements in developed
regions have made great progress on the markets will chip away at the available pool of
vaccination front recently (Figure I-27). We expect vaccines, hindering distribution within emerging
progress to continue to be strong in emerging markets.
Asia and Latin America, such that the majority of
people who are willing and able to be vaccinated However, in good news for emerging-market
will be by the end of 2021, ahead of consensus regions outside of Asia, recent evidence seems to
expectations. But vaccine-related health risks suggest that natural immunity is a potent force
persist. Logistical and supply factors will limit in reducing hospitalization and mortality risk
rollout in emerging Africa until at least the first from subsequent COVID-19 infections. But even
half of 2022, and vaccine hesitancy will continue though natural immunity may suggest a silver
to hamper vaccine coverage in emerging Europe lining to the significant outbreaks suffered across
through the rest of 2021. With only a small much of emerging markets in 2020 and 2021,
proportion of the population having acquired Asian populations will remain vulnerable until
immunity, emerging Asia remains vaccine reliant vaccination rollouts are complete—and
and vulnerable to continued COVID-19 outbreaks. potentially beyond.
FIGURE I-27
Divergence in global vaccination rates
100%
Percentage of population fully vaccinated Forecast
80 Developed markets
Africa
60
Latin Emerging Europe
America Emerging Asia
40
20
0
Jun. Jul. Aug. Sep. Oct. Nov. Dec. Jan. Feb. Mar. Apr. May Jun. Jul.
2021 2021 2021 2021 2021 2021 2021 2022 2022 2022 2022 2022 2022 2022
Notes: The forecast is based on an AR(1) process assuming a terminal coverage rate and decay factor by region. AR(1) refers to an auto-regressive process where a contemporary
data point is correlated to its lagged value. Terminal coverage rate is the maximum vaccine coverage rate expected for a region based on Vanguard calculations. Decay factors for
regions are a combination of factors such as proximity to terminal coverage rate and existing regional vaccination rates.
Sources: Vanguard calculations, based on data from Our World in Data, Oxford University, as of October 31, 2021.
34

--- PAGE 35 ---
Our proprietary modeling suggests material step-up in global infrastructure spending to
impacts to emerging-market economies from retool greener economies, we expect commodity
changes in the second and third drivers of prices to remain elevated in 2022. This is a boost
emerging-market growth in 2022—developed- to emerging-market economies broadly. Thus
market monetary policy and global growth. We there is upside risk to emerging-market growth
estimate that a one-standard-deviation shock stemming from global commodity demand.
to global commodity prices will boost emerging-
market economic growth by 2 percentage points On the flip side, there is downside risk to our
over two years. Similarly, we estimate that a emerging-market growth forecast resulting from
one-standard-deviation appreciation in the dollar the increasing potential for earlier-than-expected
(as triggered by an unexpected Fed tightening) hikes by developed-market central banks, chiefly
will shave off about half a percentage point in the Fed. As inflation remains stubbornly high in
emerging-market economic growth over two the U.S., market participants are increasingly
years (Figure I-28). pricing Fed hikes into 2022. This caused sell-offs
in emerging-market assets in the third quarter
An uptick in global demand as countries exit of 2021, as evidenced by emerging-market foreign
lockdown, led by the U.S., has boosted global exchange markets and by spreads widening. If the
commodity prices significantly so far this year. market were to continue to price in earlier Fed
We expect supply shortages to continue through hikes and possibly even incrementally larger hikes
the first quarter of 2022 before cooling off (for example, 50 basis points versus 25 basis
slightly. In combination with structural energy points), financial conditions may tighten further
shortages making the extraction of key in emerging markets, cutting growth prospects.
commod ities more expensive, and the structural
FIGURE I-28
Commodity and dollar developments
a. C ommodities have risen through COVID-19 but the b. C ommodity and dollar developments should be
dollar has been flat positive for emerging markets growth
140 Commodity and dollar price indexes (Q4 2019 = 100) 2 Cumulative percentage-point
impact on emerging-market
130 GDP growth
120 Commodities 1
110
U.S. dollar
100 0
90
80 –1
Dec. Mar. Jun. Sep. Dec. Mar. Jun. Sep. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8
2019 2020 2020 2020 2020 2021 2021 2021 Quarter from initial impact
Commodities price appreciation U.S. dollar appreciation
Notes: Commodities data are based on the S&P GSCI Non-Energy Commodity Price Index. U.S. dollar data are based on the Bloomberg Dollar Index. A one-standard-deviation
shock to global commodity prices boosts emerging-market economic growth by 2 percentage points over two years. Similarly, a one-standard-deviation appreciation in the dollar
(as triggered by an unexpected Fed tightening) will shave off about half a percentage point in emerging-market economic growth over two years.
Sources: Vanguard calculations, based on data from Standard & Poor’s and Bloomberg, as of October 31, 2021.
35

--- PAGE 36 ---
Another factor limiting the emerging-market emerging-market economies, and it can increase
recovery is the more limited fiscal and monetary the value of external debt, leading to financial
space afforded to those economies relative to stability concerns.17 As an example, we compare
their developed-market counterparts. Figure I-29 Latin American economies Mexico and Brazil.
shows that although developed-market economies Brazil stimulated its economy with aggressive
suffered no consequences in terms of lower fiscal spending (similar to developed markets)
foreign exchange rates from fiscal stimulus, and thereby initially suffered a much milder
there was a strong positive correlation between recession than Mexico, which decided not to
the size of fiscal stimulus and the size of the spend much in the face of the COVID-19 shock.
subsequent foreign exchange sell-off in However, Brazil’s currency has sold off much
emerging markets. more severely than the Mexican peso, which
remains relatively stable. This in turn has led
A depreciating currency in emerging markets to spiraling inflation in Brazil, compared
is negative for two main reasons: It can be with Mexico.
inflationary because of the open nature of
FIGURE I-29
Emerging-market countries were punished by the markets for fiscal stimulus;
developed-market countries were not
17 An open economy is one characterized by both a reliance on international trade in goods and services, often denominated in foreign currencies, and a reliance on international
capital flows.
lanimon
ni
egnahc
egatnecreP
ecnis
etar
egnahcxe
evitceffe
0202
fo
gninnigeb
20%
10 Australia Canada No negative
France U.K. Germany consequences
from G10 fiscal
0
South Africa spending
India Japan
–10 Mexico The most fiscally
Russia profligate emerging
–20 markets were
punished most
Brazil
–30
Turkey
–40
0 5 10 15 20 25 30
Percentage change in primary fiscal deficit in 2020
Notes: Turkey did very little fiscal stimulus, instead advocating a private credit impulse. The net effect of boosting economic performance is the same. We use that private credit
impulse as a proxy for fiscal stimulus.
Sources: Vanguard calculations, based on national sources via Refinitiv, as of October 31, 2021.
36

--- PAGE 37 ---
In addition to the contrasting issues facing Part of the disinflationary pressure in emerging
countries such as Brazil and Mexico, broader Asia stems from its zero-COVID strategies. We
inflationary dichotomies exist at a regional level. expect the pace of vaccine rollout to confer a
In both Latin America and emerging Europe, level of herd immunity, such that emerging
inflation is above its pre-COVID rate. However, in Asian economies can safely depart from such
emerging Asia, inflation remains below its pre- approaches, which have also hampered demand
COVID rate. In 2022, we expect some moderation in the region. Central banks in regions such as
of both phenomena; however, continued global Latin America and emerging Europe have been
supply disruptions and strong global demand add at the forefront of the emerging-market hiking
upside risk to our outlook. In particular, we see cycle and are expected to continue raising rates
higher-than-trend inflation continuing in Latin in 2022. Continued monetary policy efforts to
America beyond 2022 because of unanchored counter inflation in these regions, as well as
expectations and policy errors. In contrast, gradually easing global supply constraints and
we expect to see some normalization in waning developed-market fiscal impulses,
emerging Europe and emerging Asia toward should cool inflationary pressures by late 2022.
the pre-COVID trend.
37

--- PAGE 38 ---
II. Global capital markets outlook
Global capital markets in 2021 barely missed a As we look to 2022 and beyond, our long-term
beat as they continued their steady rise from outlook for global asset returns is guarded.
pandemic lows in March 2020. The first quarter This is especially true for equities, where high
of 2021 was defined by the “reflation trade” amid valuations and lower economic growth rates
the economic reopening that resulted in rising mean we expect lower returns over the next
interest rates. The economically sensitive sectors decade. For fixed income, low (by historical
of broad markets (value and small-capitalization standards) interest rates mean that investors
stocks) outperformed. By the second quarter, should expect lower returns. However, the fact
however, a more hawkish policy stance from that rates have risen modestly since 2020 means
central banks, falling expectations for global that our outlook is commensurately higher.
growth, and the Delta variant caused the yield
curve to flatten, U.S. markets to widen their
performance gap over international, and growth
stocks to outperform value. Now, with valuations
that have exceeded pre-pandemic highs, elevated
inflation and the prospect of policy normalization
are creating a fragile backdrop for markets.
Vanguard’s distinct approach to forecasting
To treat the future with the deference it deserves, Vanguard has long believed that market forecasts
are best viewed in a probabilistic framework. This annual publication’s primary objectives are to
describe the projected long-term return distributions that contribute to strategic asset allocation
decisions and to present the rationale for the ranges and probabilities of potential outcomes. This
analysis discusses our global outlook from the perspective of a U.S. investor with a dollar-
denominated portfolio.
38

--- PAGE 39 ---
A guarded stance on future returns has been a and reduced our expectations for the future. This
tenet of our 10-year outlooks for the past few is because interest rates on developed-market
years. Figure II-1 shows our 10-year outlook and sovereign debt are the foundation on which other,
realized returns for a globally diversified, 60% risky returns are built.
stock/40% bond portfolio since 2001. The figure
shows how stronger-than-expected equity Although our economic outlook calls for modestly
markets (especially in the U.S.) have led to high higher inflation and a normalization in interest
returns for investors. It also shows that our rates over the next decade, it will not be enough
outlook for global stocks and bonds has drifted to raise our returns forecast to historical
lower since the GFC—a move accelerated by averages. Achieving such returns will require a
recent outperformance. This drift is also a shift in the underlying secular forces that have
function of the low-growth, low-inflation kept rates low across developed economies since
environment that has been a theme of the last the late 2000s.18 For this reason, our confidence
decade and has served to keep interest rates low. in our low-return outlook has only grown stronger,
Low rates, in turn, have simultaneously raised and we continue to caution investors against
realized returns through the valuations channel extrapolating future results from the past.
FIGURE II-1
Returns on a 60/40 balanced portfolio are expected to be roughly half of what investors
realized over the last decade
10-year annualized returns
10%
9%
8
6
4
Interquartile range
2 Actual return
Median expectation
0
2011 2013 2015 2017 2019 2021 2023 2025 2027 2029 2031
Past performance is not a reliable indicator of future results.
Notes: The chart shows the actual 10-year annualized return of a 60/40 stock/bond portfolio compared with the VCMM forecast for the same portfolio made 10 years earlier. For
example, the 2011 data point at the beginning of the chart shows the actual return for the 10-year period 2001–2011 (solid line) compared with the 10-year return forecast made in
2001 (dotted line). After 2021 the dotted line is extended to show how our forecasts made between 2012 and 2021 (ending between 2022 and 2031) are evolving. The interquartile
range represents the area between the 25th and 75th percentile of the return distribution. The portfolio is 36% U.S. stocks, 24% international stocks, 28% U.S. bonds, and 12%
international bonds. See the Appendix section titled “Indexes for VCMM simulations” for further details on asset classes.
Source: Vanguard calculations, as of September 30, 2021.
IMPORTANT: The projections and other information generated by the Vanguard Capital Markets Model regarding the likelihood of various investment
outcomes are hypothetical in nature, do not reflect actual investment results, and are not guarantees of future results.
18 For a more detailed discussion of these secular forces, see Figure I-3 and the related discussion on page 10.
39

--- PAGE 40 ---
Global equity markets: A widening behind others as rising equity valuations have
performance gap become more broad-based.19 Although this is
positive from a short-term, realized-return
The market recovery from COVID-19 has been
perspective, it means that the global opportunity
broadly positive but varied in magnitude.
set is now less attractive than it was a year ago.
U.S. and global ex-U.S. equities both posted
strong returns, but the U.S. outperformed by Such relative returns are largely consistent with
9 percentage points through September 30, 2021. what investors experienced over the last few
Within international (ex-U.S.) equities, developed decades. Figures II-2a and II-2b show that U.S.
markets offered historically strong returns of equities have outperformed our forecast, pushing
10%, while emerging markets returned –1%. our future return expectations lower, while
Interestingly, the areas where valuations expanded international equities have underperformed,
the most as economies reopened in 2020, such as pushing expectations higher.
the U.S. and emerging markets, have lagged
FIGURE II-2
Valuations are the key driver of U.S. outperformance over the last decade and
underperformance over the next
a. U .S. equities have recently outperformed our b. I nternational equities have underperformed but
expectations are closer to our estimates
10-year annualized returns 10-year annualized returns
18% 16%
16.8%
15
12
12
9 8
7.5%
6
4
3
0 0
2011 2015 2019 2023 2027 2031 2011 2015 2019 2023 2027 2031
Interquartile range Actual return Median expectation
Past performance is not a reliable indicator of future results. Any projections should be regarded as hypothetical in nature and do not reflect or guarantee
future results.
Notes: Figure II-2a shows the actual 10-year annualized return for U.S. equities compared with the VCMM forecast made 10 years earlier. Figure II-2b shows the actual 10-year
annualized return for international equities compared with the VCMM forecast made 10 years earlier. For example, the 2011 data point at the beginning of each chart shows the
actual return for the 10-year period 2001–2011 (solid line) compared with the 10-year return forecast made in 2001 (dotted line). After 2021 the dotted line is extended to show how
our forecasts made between 2012 and 2021 (ending between 2022 and 2031) are evolving. The interquartile range represents the area between the 25th and 75th percentile of the
return distribution. See the Appendix section titled “Indexes for VCMM simulations” for further details on asset classes.
Source: Vanguard calculations, as of September 30, 2021.
IMPORTANT: The projections and other information generated by the Vanguard Capital Markets Model regarding the likelihood of various investment
outcomes are hypothetical in nature, do not reflect actual investment results, and are not guarantees of future results.
19 Differences in valuation and return leaders and laggards can be explained by earnings growth, dividend yield, and (in the case of international equities) currency return. For
instance, a country could lag from a valuation perspective but still outperform as a function of the other return drivers.
40

--- PAGE 41 ---
In the U.S., valuation changes and, to a lesser In order for the gap that defined the last
extent, earnings growth pushed realized decade to persist into the next, one would have
returns 9.4 percentage points higher than our to believe that economic growth will not be
expectations on an annualized basis during the broad-based (that is, it will be concentrated in
last decade. Figure II-3 compares our forecasted a few sectors), that interest rates will decline
return for U.S. equities in 2011 with the realized further, that inflation pressures will completely
return as of September 30, 2021—basically the subside, and that risk-seeking behavior will
2021 data points for each line in Figure II-2a. In continue to push valuations away from fair value.
Figure II-3, “valuation change” is decomposed into These assumptions are inconsistent with our
changes in real interest rates, long-run inflation, economic analysis and the market-based
and “behavior” (overvaluation). The figure shows expectations that serve as inputs to our
that low interest rates and inflation, along with Vanguard Capital Markets Model (VCMM).
higher-than-expected earnings, justify some, but
not all, of the error in our forecast.
FIGURE II-3
Investor psychology and higher earnings explain most of the error in our forecast
10-year 10-year annualized Behavior Earnings Dividend Actual
real yield inflation
41
snruter
dezilaunna
raey-01
20%
2.0%
16 6.4% –0.5%
12
1.6%
8 15.38% 16.82% 16.8%
–0%
4 8.95%
7.4% 7.34% 7.34%
0
Predicted
Valuation (P/E) change Earnings growth Dividend Total return
2011 forecast –0.1% 5.0% 2.5% 7.4%
Actual 2011–2021 7.9% 7.0% 2.0% 16.8%
Past performance is not a reliable indicator of future results.
Notes: The chart decomposes the difference between our 2011 forecast for U.S. equities as of September 30, 2011, and actual returns over the subsequent 10-year period. Returns
are based on the MSCI US Broad Market Index. Changes in valuations are broken down into the 10-year real yield and 10-year annualized inflation based on our proprietary fair-
value cyclically adjusted price/earnings (CAPE) model. “Behavior” is the estimated level of overvaluation, which is described as the difference between actual CAPE and our median
estimate of fair value as of September 30, 2021. We classify this deviation as “behavioral” because it is unexplained by the long-term, fundamental drivers of valuations based on
our research. The numbers in the table may not sum perfectly because of rounding.
Source: Vanguard calculations, as of September 30, 2021.
IMPORTANT: The projections and other information generated by the Vanguard Capital Markets Model regarding the likelihood of various investment
outcomes are hypothetical in nature, do not reflect actual investment results, and are not guarantees of future results.

--- PAGE 42 ---
Figures II-4a and II-4b show our expectations for part of investors. Time-varying portfolio
U.S.-based investor equity returns and our view construction, which uses forward-looking asset-
of valuations across developed and emerging return expectations as the basis for potential
markets. Our valuations and forecasting frame- strategic allocation changes, should balance risk
works are intended to set long-term expectations. and return in a utility-based framework and
Therefore, overvaluation or undervaluation should requires acceptance of model and active risk
not, in itself, suggest a short-term action on the (Wallick et al., 2020).
FIGURE II-4
Low expected returns for global equities, but opportunities exist
a. Equity market 10-year outlook: Setting reasonable expectations
10-year 20%
annualized
return 15
Percentiles key:
10
95th
5
75th
0
Median
–5
25th
–10
5th Global ex-U.S.
U.S. U.S. U.S. equities U.S. U.S. U.S.
small-cap value REITs (unhedged) growth equity large-cap
95th percentile 11.8% 12.3% 11.1% 12.6% 7.3% 10.0% 9.9%
75th percentile 6.6% 7.4% 6.2% 8.8% 3.0% 6.0% 5.9%
Median 3.2% 4.1% 2.9% 6.2% 0.1% 3.3% 3.2%
25th percentile –0.2% 0.8% –0.4% 3.7% –2.8% 0.6% 0.5%
5th percentile –5.2% –4.0% –5.0% –0.1% –7.2% –3.4% –3.5%
Median volatility 22.5% 19.2% 19.1% 18.4% 17.5% 16.7% 16.3%
Any projections should be regarded as hypothetical in nature and do not reflect or guarantee future results.
Notes: The forecast corresponds to the distribution of 10,000 VCMM simulations for 10-year annualized nominal returns in USD for asset classes highlighted here. Median
volatility is the 50th percentile of an asset class’s distribution of annualized standard deviation of returns. Asset class returns do not take into account management fees and
expenses, nor do they reflect the effect of taxes. Returns do reflect reinvestment of dividends and capital gains. Indexes are unmanaged; therefore, direct investment is not
possible. See the Appendix section titled “Indexes for VCMM simulations” for further details on asset classes.
Source: Vanguard calculations, as of September 30, 2021.
IMPORTANT: The projections and other information generated by the Vanguard Capital Markets Model regarding the likelihood of various investment
outcomes are hypothetical in nature, do not reflect actual investment results, and are not guarantees of future results.
b. Valuations drifting higher
Undervalued Fairly valued Stretched
0 25 50 75 100%
Global equity
markets valuation
percentile relative
to fair value
46% 50% 58% 78% 95% 97% 97%
Ex-U.S. developed U.S. U.S. Emerging U.S. U.S. U.S.
markets small-cap value markets growth large-cap
Past performance is not a reliable indicator of future results.
Notes: Developed-market equity valuation measures are the current CAPE percentile relative to the fair-value CAPE for the local MSCI index. The U.S. valuation measure is
the current CAPE percentile relative to fair-value CAPE for the S&P 500 Index from January 1940 to September 2021. The ex-U.S. developed markets valuation measure is the
weighted average of each region’s (Australia, U.K., euro area, Japan, and Canada) valuation percentile. The emerging markets, U.S. value, and U.S. small-cap relative valuations
are based on the relative percentile rank to fair value estimated in Figures II-6 and II-8. The U.S. growth and large-cap valuations are composite valuation measures of the style
factor to U.S relative valuations and the current U.S. CAPE percentile relative to its fair-value CAPE. The relative valuation is the current ratio of the style factor to U.S. price/book
metrics relative to its historical average from January 1979 through September 2021. For corresponding indexes for the four style factor valuation measures, see the Appendix
section “Indexes for VCMM simulations.” The estimates cover the period beginning from January 1940 for the U.S., January 1970 for Australia and the U.K., January 1980 for other
developed markets, and September 1998 for emerging markets, and ended September 30, 2021.
Sources: Vanguard calculations, based on Robert Shiller’s website, at aida.wss.yale.edu/~shiller/data.htm, the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, the Federal Reserve Board, and
Refinitiv, as of September 30, 2021. 42

--- PAGE 43 ---
U.S. valuations are being stretched at the The spread between actual and fair-value CAPE
highest levels since the early 2000s is also instructive because of the recent divergence
The continued surge in broad equity markets in direction between the two series. Over the last
following their robust recovery in 2020 has 12 months, higher interest rates and inflation
pushed Robert Shiller’s cyclically adjusted price/ have pushed our estimate of fair value lower,
earnings ratio (CAPE) for the Standard & Poor’s while market participants have continued to
500 Index further above our estimate of fair expand valuations. We view this as confirmation
value. Figure II-5 shows the CAPE along with our that the market sees near-term inflation pressures
fair-value model estimate and suggests that even as transitory and unlikely to persist—a view that
when we account for the level of real interest is not certain and will be dependent on successful
rates and inflation, equities have not been this central bank policy normalization.
overvalued since the dot-com bubble.20 The
valuation dashboard in Figure II-4b confirms this
by showing that U.S. equities (led by large-cap
growth) are nearing unprecedented levels of
overvaluation.
FIGURE II-5
U.S. equities have not been this overvalued since the dot-com bubble
20 Our fair-value CAPE is at the 94th percentile of historical deviations from fair value since 1950 as of September 30, 2021.
43
detsujda
yllacilcyC
oitar
sgninrae/ecirp
50
Dot-com bubble
Fair-value CAPE +/–0.5 standard error
40 CAPE for the S&P 500 Index
Historical average
30
20
10
0
1950 1960 1970 1980 1990 2000 2010 2020
Past performance is not a reliable indicator of future results.
Notes: The U.S. fair-value CAPE is based on a statistical model that corrects CAPE measures for the level of inflation and interest rates. The statistical model specification is
a three-variable vector error correction, including equity-earnings yields, 10-year trailing inflation, and 10-year U.S. Treasury yields estimated over the period January 1940 to
September 2021. Details were published in the 2017 Vanguard research paper Global Macro Matters: As U.S. Stock Prices Rise, the Risk-Return Trade-Off Gets Tricky (Davis, 2017).
A declining fair-value CAPE suggests that higher equity risk premium (ERP) compensation is required, while a rising fair-value CAPE suggests that the ERP is compressing.
Sources: Vanguard calculations, based on data from Robert Shiller’s website, at aida.wss.yale.edu/~shiller/data.htm, the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, the Federal Reserve
Board, Refinitiv, and Global Financial Data, as of September 30, 2021.

--- PAGE 44 ---
Within the U.S. market, we continue to have a Still-stretched valuations are an important input
constructive view on value stocks despite their into our more conservative forecast for U.S.
strong performance relative to growth in 2021 equity over the next 10 years. Although valuation
(DiCiurcio et al., 2021). As Figure II-6a illustrates, expansion proved to be a tailwind to returns over
results through September 30, 2021, show that the last 30 years, we expect valuations to contract
value has recovered only about a quarter of its 3.2% on average annually as interest rates
nearly unprecedented deficit. We expect value gradually rise over the next decade. Alongside
to outperform by as much as the historical the decline in corporate earnings growth, which
equity risk premium over the next decade, is projected to fall from its 7% average annual
mostly because of a decay in the overvaluation rate over the last decade to a rate close to 5%,
of growth stocks, not because the “fair value our expected return outlook for U.S. equities
of value” has returned to historical norms. over the next decade is centered in the modest
2.3%–4.3% range, lower than the 3.5%–5.5%
We find that similar drivers—interest rates, returns forecasted last year.21 This pales in
inflation, volatility, and corporate profits—explain comparison with the 10.6% annualized return
72% of the variations in small-cap versus large- generated over the last 30 years.
cap price/book ratios (Figure II-6b). However, the
resurgence in economically sensitive parts of the
market, such as small-caps, has been sufficient
to return that ratio to our estimate of fair value.
But as inflation pressures continue to mount, the
risk for small-caps is that higher growth does not
continue to accompany price increases, as it has
over the past year.
21 Investors should recognize that “low return” does not necessarily imply negative returns. Although the probability of negative returns on U.S. equities over the next decade is
higher than it was last year, the central tendency of our forecast is still positive. If our forecast is correct, the U.S. stock market could continue to reach all-time highs, albeit at
a slower rate.
44

--- PAGE 45 ---
FIGURE II-6
Value and small-caps outperformed broad U.S. indexes this year
a. Despite 2021 rally, there is still upside in value
45
koob/ecirp
htworg
ot
koob/ecirp
eulav
fo
oitaR
0.35
0.30
0.25
Historical average
0.20
Fair value of value/growth
0.15 price/book ratio prediction
0.10
Fair-value range
0.05 Historical ratio
Median fair-value estimate
0
1979 1983 1987 1991 1995 1999 2003 2007 2011 2015 2019 2023 2027 2031
Past performance is not a reliable indicator of future results. Any projections should be regarded as hypothetical in nature and do not reflect or guarantee
future results.
Note: The valuation ratio is projected based on a vector error correction model, using a five-lag vector autoregression model to project the systematic drivers.
Sources: Vanguard calculations, based on data from FactSet, the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, the Federal Reserve Board, Refinitiv, and Global Financial Data, as of
September 30, 2021.
b. Small-caps have returned to our estimate of fair value
1.4
1.2
1.0
0.8
0.6
0.4
+/–0.5 standard error
0.2 Historical ratio
Median fair-value estimate
0
1979 1982 1985 1988 1991 1994 1997 2000 2003 2006 2009 2012 2015 2018 2021
koob/ecirp
tekram
ot
koob/ecirp
kcots
llams
fo
oitaR
Past performance is not a reliable indicator of future results.
Note: The statistical model specification is a five-variable vector error correction, including a respective ratio of price to book, 10-year trailing inflation, 10-year real Treasury yield,
equity volatility, and growth of corporate profits estimated over the period January 1979 through September 2021.
Sources: Vanguard calculations, based on data from FactSet, the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, the Federal Reserve Board, Refinitiv, and Global Financial Data, as of
September 30, 2021.

--- PAGE 46 ---
Outlook for global equities and the outperform U.S. equities in the coming decades.
diversification of domestic risks This view, highlighted in Figure II-7, is largely
When we extend the fair-value concept that we because of reversion in the unsustainable U.S.
applied to U.S. equities to other regions, we find valuation expansion described above, but it is
that, in aggregate, non-U.S. developed markets not conditional on it. Our analysis suggests that
appear to be fairly valued, after adjusting even if interest rates remain low 10 years from
valuations for lower rates and inflation (Figure now—which would provide support for equity
II-4b). Despite the global divergence in health and valuations—they will likely be associated with
economic outcomes, we believe that there is a offsetting lower economic and earnings growth
high probability that international equities will over the same period (DiCiurcio et al., 2020).
FIGURE II-7
Valuation contraction in the U.S. is expected to drive excess returns internationally
over the next 10 years
Annualized return 0.6%
1.5%
1.5%
–0.7%
6.2%
3.3%
MSCI USA Valuation Earnings Dividend Foreign- MSCI ACWI
return change growth yield exchange ex USA return
(2021–2031) return (2021–2031)
Foreign-
Valuation Earnings Dividend exchange
expansion growth yield return Total return
MSCI USA Index –3.2% 5.0% 1.5% — 3.3%
MSCI ACWI ex USA Index –1.7% 4.3% 3.0% 0.6% 6.2%
Any projections should be regarded as hypothetical in nature and do not reflect or guarantee future results.
Notes: Forward-looking return estimates are from the VCMM, as of September 30, 2021, for the period October 1, 2021, through September 30, 2031. The U.S. equity return is
represented by the MSCI USA Index return; the international equity return is represented by the MSCI ACWI ex USA Index return. Returns do not take into account management
fees and expenses, nor do they reflect the effect of taxes. Returns do reflect reinvestment of dividends and capital gains.
Sources: Vanguard calculations, based on data from Refinitiv and Global Financial Data, as of September 30, 2021.
IMPORTANT: The projections and other information generated by the Vanguard Capital Markets Model regarding the likelihood of various investment
outcomes are hypothetical in nature, do not reflect actual investment results, and are not guarantees of future results.
46

--- PAGE 47 ---
Emerging-market valuations appear two-thirds of emerging-market valuations, which
stretched, but diversification benefits remain in turn explain future emerging-market equity
Within international equities, our fair-value returns.23 Figure II-8 shows our estimate of fair
framework shown in Figure II-4b suggests that value and actual results, and highlights that
developed-market ex-U.S. equity valuations are emerging-market valuations are most sensitive
closer to our estimate of fair value than are to the economic environment.
emerging markets. The combined pressures of
Although we view valuations as stretched in
COVID-19 and the reduced ability to provide
emerging markets, it does not necessarily mean
policy support have hurt emerging markets on a
we believe that investors should avoid these
relative basis. However, lower relative valuations
markets. In fact, current valuations and a
and anticipation of increased global demand
correction to fair value suggest that emerging-
have made emerging-market equities attractive
market returns should be 4.2%–6.2% per year
to some.
(1.9 percentage points higher than U.S. equities)
Our research indicates that the broad over the next decade. Emerging markets also
emerging-market valuation is stretched based have a historically moderate correlation with
on its relationships with aggregate inflation, U.S. and developed-market international
real U.S. short-term yields, the spread between equities.24 For these reasons, we believe that
emerging-market and U.S. central bank policy emerging-market equities still merit inclusion
rates, economic conditions, and equity market in a globally diversified portfolio.
volatility.22 Together, these drivers explain about
FIGURE II-8
Emerging markets present opportunities when economic fundamentals are pointing up
22 Our methodology uses a five-factor multiple linear regression model to explain changes in the price to three-year rolling average earnings for the MSCI Emerging
Markets Index.
23 Similar to the U.S., there is a statistically significant negative relationship between starting valuations and future returns over five- and 10-year periods.
24 Since 1990, the correlation has been low between emerging-market equities and those in the U.S. (0.46), Australia (0.64), Canada (0.61), the U.K. (0.53), Japan (0.50),
and the euro area (0.56).
47
oitar
3E/P
stekram
gnigremE
30
25
20
15
10
+/–0.5 standard error
5
MSCI Emerging Markets P/E3 ratio (actual)
MSCI Emerging Markets P/E3 ratio (predicted)
0
1998 2000 2002 2004 2006 2008 2010 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020
Notes: The statistical model specification is a five-variable ordinary least squares regression that uses the following variables: inflation for six major emerging markets (Brazil,
China, India, South Korea, Mexico, and Taiwan) weighted by MSCI monthly index weights; monthly average of daily real 10-year U.S. Treasury yield; emerging markets central bank
policy rates weighted by GDP in U.S. dollars; Vanguard’s leading economic indicators (VLEI) for China, Brazil, and Mexico (weighted average based on country GDP in U.S. dollars);
and monthly average of daily U.S. equity market volatility (VIX). P/E3 is the price divided by trailing 3-year average earnings.
Sources: Vanguard calculations, based on data from the U.S. Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis FRED database and Bloomberg, as of September 30, 2021.

--- PAGE 48 ---
Global fixed income: Rising rates won’t Although the modestly higher inflation and
upend markets policy normalization in our economic outlook
is expected to represent a small reversal in the
Given the strong relationship between initial
trend, an increase in the equilibrium (natural)
yield and future returns, it is not surprising that
rate of interest, as described in the earlier section
U.S. and international fixed income returns for
“Monetary policy: Change amid uncertainty,” is
U.S. investors have largely been in line with our
needed to generate sustainably higher fixed
forecasts. As shown in Figures II-9a and II-9b,
income returns.
these forecasts have been pushed down by
falling interest rates over the last two decades.
FIGURE II-9
Falling interest rates pushed bond returns (and our forecast) lower
a. U .S. bond returns were largely in line with our b. C urrency hedging helped offset negative rates
expectations impact
10-year annualized returns 10-year annualized returns
8% 8%
6 6
3.6%
4 4
3.0%
2 2
0 0
2011 2013 2015 2017 2019 2021 2023 2025 2027 2029 2031 2011 2013 2015 2017 2019 2021 2023 2025 2027 2029 2031
Interquartile range Actual return Median expectation
Past performance is not a reliable indicator of future results. Any projections should be regarded as hypothetical in nature and do not reflect or guarantee
future results.
Notes: Figure II-9a shows the actual 10-year annualized return of U.S. bonds compared with the VCMM forecast of 10 years earlier. Figure II-9b shows the actual 10-year
annualized return of U.S. dollar-hedged international bonds compared with the VCMM forecast of 10 years earlier. For example, the 2011 data point at the beginning of each chart
shows the actual return for the 10-year period 2001–2011 (solid line) compared with the 10-year return forecast made in 2001 (dotted line). After 2021 the dotted line is extended
to show how our forecasts made between 2012 and 2021 (ending between 2022 and 2031) are evolving. The interquartile range represents the area between the 25th and 75th
percentile of the return distribution. See the Appendix section titled “Indexes for VCMM simulations” for further details on asset classes.
Source: Vanguard calculations, as of September 30, 2021.
IMPORTANT: The projections and other information generated by the Vanguard Capital Markets Model regarding the likelihood of various investment
outcomes are hypothetical in nature, do not reflect actual investment results, and are not guarantees of future results.
48

--- PAGE 49 ---
Against a backdrop of gradually rising rates, the specific to the U.S. fixed income markets (Philips
fixed income return outlook in the next decade et al., 2014). Broad U.S. investment-grade bonds
has been ticking up from last year’s projections, should outperform U.S. Treasury bonds by 50
to 1.4%–2.4% as shown in Figure II-10a. Expected basis points on an annualized basis. Importantly,
returns for non-U.S. bonds are marginally lower although future returns for fixed income remain
than for those of U.S. bonds, given the relatively at historical lows, the COVID-19 crisis reaffirmed
lower yields in non-U.S. developed markets. But the role bonds play in a portfolio (Davis et al.,
the diversification through exposure to hedged 2020b).
non-U.S. bonds should help offset some risk
FIGURE II-10
Valuation expansion has chipped away at investors’ sources of extra yield
a. Higher rates have pushed expected fixed income returns higher
10-year 6%
annualized
return
Percentiles key: 4
95th
2
75th
Median
0
25th
5th –2
U.S. Global
high-yield Emerging U.S. U.S. ex-U.S.
corporate sovereign Treasury U.S. intermediate U.S. U.S. bonds U.S. U.S.
bonds bonds bonds credit bonds TIPS bonds MBS (hedged) inflation cash
95th percentile 5.3% 4.9% 3.2% 3.7% 3.9% 3.4% 3.6% 4.2% 4.1% 4.2%
75th percentile 3.7% 3.7% 2.3% 2.7% 2.4% 2.5% 2.8% 2.7% 2.8% 2.7%
Median 2.7% 2.8% 1.7% 2.1% 1.5% 1.9% 2.2% 1.8% 2.0% 1.7%
25th percentile 1.8% 1.9% 1.1% 1.6% 0.7% 1.4% 1.7% 1.0% 1.2% 0.9%
5th percentile 0.4% 0.1% 0.4% 0.9% –0.2% 0.7% 0.9% 0.2% –0.1% 0.2%
Median volatility 10.4% 10.1% 4.7% 4.7% 4.6% 4.6% 4.1% 3.8% 2.3% 1.2%
Any projections should be regarded as hypothetical in nature and do not reflect or guarantee future results.
Notes: The forecast corresponds to the distribution of 10,000 VCMM simulations for 10-year annualized nominal returns in USD for asset classes highlighted here. Median
volatility is the 50th percentile of an asset class’s distribution of annualized standard deviation of returns. Asset class returns do not take into account management fees and
expenses, nor do they reflect the effect of taxes. Returns do reflect reinvestment of dividends and capital gains. Indexes are unmanaged; therefore, direct investment is not
possible. See the Appendix section titled “Indexes for VCMM simulations” for further details on asset classes. U.S. inflation is the 10-year average of year-over-year U.S. headline CPI.
Source: Vanguard calculations, as of September 30, 2021.
b. Aggregate fixed income appears to be fairly valued, but pockets are stretched
Undervalued Fairly valued Stretched
0 25 50 75 100%
Bond markets
valuation
percentile
relative to
fair value 42% 50% 52% 64% 70% 71% 73% 73% 81%
TIPS Short- Intermediate- U.S. aggregate High-Emerging Long-term Intermediate MBS
term term Treasury bonds yieldsovereign Treasury credit
Treasury credit credit
Any projections should be regarded as hypothetical in nature and do not reflect or guarantee future results.
Notes: Valuation percentiles are relative to Year-30 projections from the VCMM. Credit (emerging sovereign, high yield, and intermediate) and MBS valuations are based on current
spreads relative to Year 30. Treasury valuation is the key rate duration weighted average of the fundamental fair value model outlined in Figure II-11. U.S. aggregate bonds are the
weighted average between intermediate-term credit and Treasury valuation percentiles. TIPS valuation is the 10-year-ahead annualized inflation expectation relative to Years 21–30.
Source: Vanguard calculations, as of September 30, 2021.
IMPORTANT: The projections and other information generated by the Vanguard Capital Markets Model regarding the likelihood of various investment
outcomes are hypothetical in nature, do not reflect actual investment results, and are not guarantees of future results.
49

--- PAGE 50 ---
U.S. interest rates: Despite steeper curve, Federal Reserve policy rates and the long-term
duration is still expensive growth and inflation environments. Although this
After staging a nearly 120-basis-point surge approach suggests that the long end of the yield
from 2020 lows, the 10-year U.S. Treasury yield curve is overvalued, our research suggests that
has moderated as investors try to ascertain the the current deviation can be explained by supply
next step in the recovery and for monetary policy. and demand considerations observed from the
Although we view the Fed as likely to keep policy distribution of yields from primary Treasury
rates low and the risk of a material rise in long- auctions. Since bottoming in July, the rise in
term interest rates as modest, the yield curve is interest rates toward fundamental fair value has
flatter than our fundamental fair-value framework coincided with reduced demand. As of the end of
suggests it should be. Our research suggests that September, the short end (illustrated by the 2-
this discrepancy between actual yields and our and 5-year key rates in Figure II-11) is close to fair
estimate of fair value is the result of the long value, while the long end (represented by the
end of the curve being constrained by strong 10- and 30-year key rates in Figure II-11) is about
investor demand. a 0.5 standard deviation below fair value.25
Looking over a 10-year time horizon, we expect
Our fair-value framework estimates the fair rising rates to produce a 1.2%–2.2% annualized
value of the yield curve based on the fundamental return on 10-year U.S. Treasuries.
drivers of Treasury yields (Figure II-11), such as
FIGURE II-11
Yields are rising, but our fair-value framework supports historically low levels
The short end of the U.S. yield curve is closer to our estimate of fair value than the long end
3.5%
3.0 Predicted
range
2.5
Median
2.0 yield curve
fair value
1.5 Actual
yield curve
1.0
September
0.5 2020 yields
0
2-year 5-year 10-year 30-year
25 Because bond prices and yields move in opposite directions, when actual yields are below our fair-value estimates, it indicates that those bonds are expensive. This is in
contrast to equities (value/growth and emerging markets), which are considered “undervalued” when below our fair-value estimate.
50
sdleiy
dnob
tnemnrevoG
Notes: The chart shows the actual constant-maturity interest rate for U.S. government bonds at four points on the yield curve and our estimate of fair value. Fair value is derived
from a statistical model specification that is a five-variable vector error correction, including the key rate yield on the Treasury yield curve (at 2 years, 5 years, 10 years, and 30
years); the first three principal components of covariance matrix for the following four variables: 10-year trailing inflation, 10-year trailing food inflation, 10-year trailing hourly
earnings growth, and effective Fed funds rate; and the five-year trailing real GDP estimated over the period January 1979–September 2021.
Sources: Vanguard calculations, based on data from FactSet, the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, the Federal Reserve Board, Refinitiv, and Global Financial Data, as of
September 30, 2021.

--- PAGE 51 ---
Corporate bonds: Higher risk, higher return sensitive to inflation risk. Although our economic
Fed policy has played a similar, albeit indirect, outlook suggests that inflation is unlikely to
role in supporting the corporate bond market. persist at current levels, our research suggests
Rising long-term Treasury rates have raised our that moderately higher inflation because of fiscal
central tendency for U.S. credit bond returns spending and rising expectations is possible
compared with last year, to the 1.6%–2.6% (Sathe, Wieland, and Davis, 2021).
range. Our outlook suggests that the expected
risk premium associated with credit bonds is Mortgage-backed securities: Negative
overvalued (Figure II-10b). Within the U.S. correlation with equities, but higher yield
aggregate bond market, investors are still
than Treasuries
expected to be compensated for assuming
The low-return environment in fixed income
credit risk, though by about half as much as we
means that bonds are expected to add relatively
suggested in 2020, resulting from continued
little to the returns from a multi-asset portfolio.
tightening in credit spreads. High-yield credit has
The negative, long-term correlation with
outperformed investment-grade credit over the
equities—especially in times of acute market
last year because of tightening spreads. This has
stress—still warrants bonds’ inclusion, but
led us to lower our return outlook for high yield
investors are right to worry about their impact
to the 2.2% to 3.2% range.
on return.26 This reinforces our view from last
year’s outlook that the role of bonds is primarily
Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities as a “shock absorber” in a portfolio. Mortgage-
(TIPS): Less attractive than last year backed securities (MBS) offer investors a
Last year, our outlook identified the risk that premium over Treasuries as compensation for
growth/inflation surges because of base effects bearing interest-rate volatility risk.27 Over
or optimism driven by health outcomes could 10 years, we expect MBS to yield 1.7%–2.7%,
warrant some Treasury Inflation-Protected compared with 1.2%–2.2% for Treasuries
Securities (TIPS) exposure. TIPS-implied inflation (Figure II-10a), representing a historically low
expectations did surge throughout the first half (but still positive) premium of 50 basis points.
of 2021 and have since moderated to settle above Further, the historical correlation of MBS with
the Fed’s 2% inflation target and the VCMM broad U.S. equities is –0.4, similar to that of
long-term median levels. Further, the prospect Treasuries. For investors looking to add yield
of rising real rates due to central bank tightening while maintaining the diversification benefit
may reduce the attractiveness of TIPS from a of government bonds, MBS could be an option.
return perspective relative to a year ago, but we
still believe they could be a valuable inflation
hedge for some institutions and investors
26 Even in the midst of the pandemic, when equity and bond correlations were briefly positive, less negative returns from fixed income still helped offset some of the losses in a
balanced portfolio’s equity holdings.
27 MBS are much more sensitive to large changes in interest rates than Treasuries are. This is especially true in a rising interest-rate environment where MBS prices will decline at
an increasing rate. However, when interest rates fall, MBS prices do not rise as much as Treasury bonds of a similar duration.
51

--- PAGE 52 ---
Stock/bond correlations: Inflation needs correlations can vary significantly, longer-term
to run hotter for long-term correlations measures have remained negative (Figure II-12).
Further, we find that inflation is a key driver
to flip positive
of long-term correlation, but we would need
The prospect of higher inflation has led some to significantly higher inflation (5.7%) than our
question whether the diversification benefit of base case (2%) over the next five years to see
bonds, a key component of multi-asset portfolio correlations become meaningfully positive
construction over the past 20 years, will persist. (Wu et al., 2021). For investors looking to achieve
The logic underpinning this argument is that their long-term goals, overall asset allocation is
rising inflation will raise interest rates, which still the most important driver of portfolio
simultaneously causes bond and equity prices to outcomes over long time horizons.
fall. Our research finds that although short-term
FIGURE II-12
Short-term correlation is time-varying, though regimes tend to stick for years
52
noitalerroC
1
0.8
0.6
0.4
0.2
0
–0.2 60-day
rolling correlation
–0.4
24-month
–0.6 rolling correlation
–0.8
–1
1992 1999 2006 2013 2020
Past performance is not a reliable indicator of future results.
Note: Rollling correlations are calculated on total returns of the S&P 500 Index and the S&P U.S. Treasury Bond Current 10-Year Index, using daily return data for the period
between January 1, 1990, and September 30, 2021.
Sources: Vanguard, using data from Refinitiv, as of September 30, 2021.

--- PAGE 53 ---
A balanced portfolio for a more The portfolio strategy in our baseline scenario
balanced environment is well diversified, with a small underweight to
risky assets compared with a 60/40 portfolio.
As policymakers look to strike a better balance
As asset return expectations materially change
in the years ahead, investors would be well-
through time, the asset allocation in our baseline
served to remember the same principles when
scenario also changes accordingly. These changing
constructing their portfolios. Figure II-13a
asset expectations drive time-varying portfolios.
examines three possible economic scenarios
Our research suggests that investors who have
occurring over the next five years. The downside
the willingness and ability to accept forecast
scenario depicts an economic environment of
model risk may be able to improve risk-adjusted
below-trend economic growth, with inflation
returns over the long term relative to a static
staying above trend. The baseline scenario is
portfolio (Wallick et al., 2020).
defined by above-trend growth and inflation.
The upside scenario is characterized by higher- Using our VCMM simulations, we are able not
than-expected growth, with inflation falling only to illustrate the effectiveness of various
below trend. portfolio strategies designed for each scenario
but also to show the risks of such strategies
Figure II-13a also shows optimal portfolios
(Figure II-13b). The following conclusions can be
based on our five-year return projections for
drawn from our analysis:
each scenario that vary their exposures to the
1. Portfolios designed for specific macroeconomic
following four factors, or risk premia: equity
scenarios entail important trade-offs. If the
risk premium, credit risk premium, inflation
scenario for which the portfolio was designed
risk premium, and term premium. In the upside
does not take place, then the portfolio
scenario, expected global equity returns would
performance is typically the worst of all the
be high. This risk-on environment would also be
options.
beneficial for credit fixed income, while lower
diversification benefits coming from commodities 2. A balanced portfolio works well for investors
and TIPS would be expected, as inflation risk is who are agnostic about the future state of
contained. the economy. The baseline balanced portfolio
is an “all-weather” strategy, with either top
In the downside scenario, the portfolio would
or middle-of-the-road performance in each
underweight equity (20% less equity exposure
scenario.
than a 60/40 policy portfolio) and credit, and
3. Portfolio tilts should be done within an
it would increase exposure to international
optimization framework. Ad hoc tilts ignore
(hedged) bonds for additional diversification.
correlations among assets and are likely
Allocation to commodities and short-term
to lead to inefficient portfolios (Aliaga-Díaz
TIPS also would be higher, to hedge short-term
et al., 2019).
inflation risk.
53

--- PAGE 54 ---
FIGURE II-13
Cyclical surprises and asset allocation trade-offs
a.
Scenario 1 Scenario 2 Scenario 3
Optimal portfolios
vary for different Baseline Downside Upside
economic
environments. Above-trend growth Below-trend growth and Above-trend growth and
and inflation above-trend inflation below-trend inflation
23% U.S. equity 16% U.S. equity 32% U.S. equity
35% Global ex-U.S. equity 24% Global ex-U.S. equity 48% Global ex-U.S. equity
10% Commodities 15% Commodities 4% Commodities
13% Global ex-U.S. bonds 12% Global ex-U.S. bonds 5% Global ex-U.S. bonds
0% Short-term TIPS 10% Short-term TIPS 0% Short-term TIPS
13% Long-term Treasury 23% Long-term Treasury 5% Long-term Treasury
6% Short-term credit 0% Short-term credit 6% Short-term credit
b.
The baseline
portfolio is not
always the best,
but it’s never the
worst.
54
nruter
dezilaunna
naideM
6%
5
4
3
2
1
0
0 4 8 12 16% 0 4 8 12 16% 0 4 8 12 16%
Median volatility
Best Baseline Downside Upside
Second best Downside Baseline Baseline
Worst Upside Upside Downside
Notes: Performance is relative to the efficient frontier. Portfolios are selected from the frontier based on a fixed risk-aversion
level. The forecast displays a simulation of three-year annualized returns of asset classes shown as of September 2021. Scenarios
are based on sorting the VCMM simulations based on the rates of growth, volatility, and inflation. The three scenarios are a subset
of the 10,000 VCMM simulations. See Appendix section titled “Indexes for VCMM simulations” for further details on asset classes
shown here. Portfolio rankings are based on Certainty Fee Equivalent (CFE). CFE is a measure developed to rank portfolios based on
the expected risk and return dimensions for each option. It is calculated as the difference between each portfolio and the Vanguard
Asset Allocation Model-derived “optimal” portfolio based on the latest inputs and capital market assumptions for a given scenario.
It can be understood as the additional fee (in basis points) that an investor is willing to pay in order to access the optimal portfolio
compared with staying in the two other options. The CFE calculation is derived from the utility value attached to a certain portfolio
risk-return trade-off, as expressed through the coefficient of risk aversion in utility functions. For more information, see Aliaga-Díaz
et al. (2019).
Source: Vanguard.
IMPORTANT: The projections and other information generated by the Vanguard Capital Markets Model regarding
the likelihood of various investment outcomes are hypothetical in nature, do not reflect actual investment results,
and are not guarantees of future results.

--- PAGE 55 ---
References
Aliaga-Díaz, Roger A., Giulio Renzi-Ricci, Ankul Ostry, Jonathan D., Atish R. Ghosh, Jun I. Kim,
Daga, and Harshdeep Ahluwalia, 2019. Vanguard and Mahvash S. Qureshi, 2010. Fiscal Space. IMF
Asset Allocation Model: An Investment Solution for Staff Position Note, September 1, 2010, Issue 011,
Active-Passive-Factor Portfolios. Valley Forge, PA: International Monetary Fund.
The Vanguard Group.
Patterson, Andrew J., Asawari Sathe, Adam J.
Boz, Emine, and Linda Tesar, 2021. Debt: The Good. Schickling, and Qian Wang, 2019. Global Macro
The Bad. The Ugly. IMF Economic Review 69(1): 1–4. Matters: Labor Force Participation: Is the Labor
Market Too Hot, Too Cold or Just Right?
Clarida, Richard H., Burcu Duygan-Bump, and
Valley Forge, Pa.: The Vanguard Group.
Chiara Scotti (2021). The COVID-19 Crisis and the
Federal Reserve’s Policy Response. Finance and Philips, Christopher B., Joseph H. Davis, Andrew
Economics Discussion Series 2021-035. Washington: J. Patterson, and Charles J. Thomas, 2014. Global
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve Fixed Income: Considerations for Fixed Income
System. Available at https://doi.org/10.17016/ Investors. Valley Forge, Pa.: The Vanguard Group.
FEDS.2021.035.
Ponticelli, Jacopo, and Hans-Joachim Voth,
Davis, Joseph, Roger Aliaga-Díaz, Harshdeep 2020. Austerity and Anarchy: Budget Cuts and
Ahluwalia, Frank Polanco, and Christos Tasopoulos, Social Unrest in Europe, 1919–2008. Journal of
2014. Vanguard Global Capital Markets Model. Valley Comparative Economics 48(1): 1–19.
Forge, Pa.: The Vanguard Group.
Sathe, Asawari, Maximilian Wieland, and Joseph
Davis, Joseph, 2017. Global Macro Matters: As U.S. Davis, 2021. The Inflation Machine: How It Works
Stock Prices Rise, the Risk-Return Trade-off Gets and Where It’s Going. Valley Forge, Pa.: The
Tricky. Valley Forge, Pa.: The Vanguard Group. Vanguard Group.
Davis, Joseph, Roger A. Aliaga-Díaz, Peter Wallick, Daniel W., Kevin DiCiurcio, Darrell I.
Westaway, Qian Wang, Andrew J. Patterson, Pacheco, and Roger Aliaga-Díaz, 2020. The
Kevin DiCiurcio, Alexis Gray, Jonathan Lemco, and Implications of Time-Varying Return on Portfolio
Joshua M. Hirt, 2020a. Vanguard Economic and Construction. Valley Forge, Pa.: The Vanguard
Market Outlook for 2021: Approaching the Dawn. Group.
Valley Forge, Pa.: The Vanguard Group.
Wang, Qian, Adam J. Schickling, and Beatrice Yeo,
Davis, Joseph, Roger A. Aliaga-Díaz, Peter 2021. Megatrends: A Tale of Two Paths: The Future
Westaway, Qian Wang, Andrew J. Patterson, of China. Valley Forge, Pa.: The Vanguard Group.
Kevin DiCiurcio, Alexis Gray, and Jonathan Lemco,
Wu, Daniel, Beatrice Yeo, Kevin DiCiurcio, and Qian
2020b. Vanguard Economic and Market Outlook,
Wang, 2021. Global Macro Matters: The Stock/
2020 Midyear Update: Forecasting in the Time of
Bond Correlation: Increasing Amid Inflation, But Not
Coronavirus. Valley Forge, Pa.: The Vanguard Group.
a Regime Change. Valley Forge, Pa.: The Vanguard
DiCiurcio, Kevin, Ian Kresnak, Kelly Farley, and Luigi Group.
Charles, 2020. Global Macro Matters: A Tale of Two
Zandi, Mark, Xu Cheng, and Tu Packard, 2011. Fiscal
Decades for U.S. and Non-U.S. Equity: Past Is Rarely
Space. Ratio, 60(80): 100.
Prologue. Valley Forge, Pa.: The Vanguard Group.
DiCiurcio, Kevin, Olga Lepigina, Ian Kresnak, and
Joseph Davis, 2021. Global Macro Matters: Value
Versus Growth Stocks: The Coming Reversal of
Fortunes. Valley Forge, Pa.: The Vanguard Group.
55

--- PAGE 56 ---
III. Appendix
About the Vanguard Capital Markets Model
IMPORTANT: The projections and other over time. The model generates a large set of
information generated by the Vanguard Capital simulated outcomes for each asset class over
Markets Model regarding the likelihood of various several time horizons. Forecasts are obtained
investment outcomes are hypothetical in nature, by computing measures of central tendency
do not reflect actual investment results, and are in these simulations. Results produced by the
not guarantees of future results. VCMM results tool will vary with each use and over time.
will vary with each use and over time.
The primary value of the VCMM is in its
The VCMM projections are based on a statistical application to analyzing potential client
analysis of historical data. Future returns may portfolios. VCMM asset-class forecasts—
behave differently from the historical patterns comprising distributions of expected returns,
captured in the VCMM. More important, the volatilities, and correlations—are key to the
VCMM may be underestimating extreme evaluation of potential downside risks, various
negative scenarios unobserved in the historical risk–return trade-offs, and the diversification
period on which the model estimation is based. benefits of various asset classes. Although
central tendencies are generated in any return
The VCMM is a proprietary financial simulation distribution, Vanguard stresses that focusing
tool developed and maintained by Vanguard’s on the full range of potential outcomes for the
Investment Strategy Group. The model forecasts assets considered, such as the data presented
distributions of future returns for a wide array of in this paper, is the most effective way to use
broad asset classes. Those asset classes include VCMM output. We encourage readers interested
U.S. and international equity markets, several in more details of the VCMM to read Vanguard’s
maturities of the U.S. Treasury and corporate white paper (Davis et al., 2014).
fixed income markets, international fixed income
markets, U.S. money markets, commodities, and The VCMM seeks to represent the uncertainty
certain alternative investment strategies. The in the forecast by generating a wide range of
theoretical and empirical foundation for the potential outcomes. It is important to recognize
Vanguard Capital Markets Model is that the that the VCMM does not impose “normality” on
returns of various asset classes reflect the the return distributions, but rather is influenced
compensation investors require for bearing by the so-called fat tails and skewness in the
different types of systematic risk (beta). At the empirical distribution of modeled asset-class
core of the model are estimates of the dynamic returns. Within the range of outcomes, individual
statistical relationship between risk factors and experiences can be quite different, underscoring
asset returns, obtained from statistical analysis the varied nature of potential future paths.
based on available monthly financial and Indeed, this is a key reason why we approach
economic data. Using a system of estimated asset-return outlooks in a distributional
equations, the model then applies a Monte Carlo framework.
simulation method to project the estimated
interrelationships among risk factors and asset
classes as well as uncertainty and randomness
56

--- PAGE 57 ---
Indexes for VCMM simulations
The long-term returns of our hypothetical portfolios are based on data for the appropriate
market indexes through September 30, 2021. We chose these benchmarks to provide the
most complete history possible, and we apportioned the global allocations to align with
Vanguard’s guidance in constructing diversified portfolios. Asset classes and their
representative forecast indexes are as follows:
• U.S. equities: MSCI US Broad Market Index.
• Global ex-U.S. equities: MSCI All Country World ex USA Index.
• U.S. REITs: FTSE/NAREIT US Real Estate Index.
• U.S. cash: U.S. 3-Month Treasury—constant maturity.
• U.S. Treasury bonds: Bloomberg U.S. Treasury Index.
• U.S. short-term Treasury bonds: Bloomberg U.S. 1–5 Year Treasury Bond Index.
• U.S. long-term Treasury bonds: Bloomberg U.S. Long Treasury Bond Index.
• U.S. credit bonds: Bloomberg U.S. Credit Bond Index.
• U.S. short-term credit bonds: Bloomberg U.S. 1–3 Year Credit Bond Index.
• U.S. high-yield corporate bonds: Bloomberg U.S. High Yield Corporate Bond Index.
• U.S. bonds: Bloomberg U.S. Aggregate Bond Index.
• Global ex-U.S. bonds: Bloomberg Global Aggregate ex-USD Index.
• U.S. TIPS: Bloomberg U.S. Treasury Inflation Protected Securities Index.
• U.S. short-term TIPS: Bloomberg U.S. 1–5 Year Treasury Inflation Protected Securities Index.
• Emerging-market sovereign bonds: Bloomberg Emerging Markets USD Aggregate Bond Index
• Commodities: Bloomberg Commodity Index.
• Mortgage-backed securities (MBS): Bloomberg U.S. Mortgage Backed Securities Index.
All equity indexes below are weighted by market capitalization:
• Small-cap equities: Stocks with a market cap in the lowest two-thirds of the Russell 1000 Index.
• Large-cap equities: Stocks with a market cap in the highest two-thirds of the Russell 1000 Index.
• Growth equities: Stocks with a price/book ratio in the highest one-third of the Russell 1000 Index.
• Value equities: Stocks with a price/book ratio in the lowest one-third of the Russell 1000 Index.
57

--- PAGE 58 ---
Notes on risk
All investing is subject to risk, including the possible loss of the money you invest. Past performance is
no guarantee of future returns. Diversification does not ensure a profit or protect against a loss in a
declining market. There is no guarantee that any particular asset allocation or mix of funds will meet
your investment objectives or provide you with a given level of income. The performance of an index
is not an exact representation of any particular investment, as you cannot invest directly in an index.
Stocks of companies in emerging markets are generally more risky than stocks of companies in
developed countries. U.S. government backing of Treasury or agency securities applies only to the
underlying securities and does not prevent price fluctuations. Investments that concentrate on a
relatively narrow market sector face the risk of higher price volatility. Investments in stocks issued
by non-U.S. companies are subject to risks including country/regional risk and currency risk.
Bond funds are subject to the risk that an issuer will fail to make payments on time, and that bond
prices will decline because of rising interest rates or negative perceptions of an issuer’s ability to
make payments. High-yield bonds generally have medium- and lower-range credit-quality ratings
and are therefore subject to a higher level of credit risk than bonds with higher credit-quality ratings.
Although the income from U.S. Treasury obligations held in the fund is subject to federal income tax,
some or all of that income may be exempt from state and local taxes.
58

--- PAGE 59 ---
Connect with Vanguard®
global.vanguard.com
Investment risk information
The value of investments, and the income from them, may fall or rise and investors may get back
less than they invested.
Past performance is not a reliable indicator of future results.
Simulated past performance is not a reliable indicator of future results.
Any projections should be regarded as hypothetical in nature and do not reflect or guarantee
future results.
Important information
For professional investors only (as defined under the MiFID II Directive) investing for
their own account (including management companies (fund of funds) and
professional clients investing on behalf of their discretionary clients). In Switzerland
for professional investors only. Not to be distributed to the public. This document is
published by Vanguard Group Inc. It is for educational purposes only and is not a recommendation
or solicitation to buy or sell investments. It should be noted that it is written in the context of the
US market and contains data and analysis specific to the US.
The information contained in this document is not to be regarded as an offer to buy or sell or the
solicitation of any offer to buy or sell securities in any jurisdiction where such an offer or
solicitation is against the law, or to anyone to whom it is unlawful to make such an offer or
solicitation, or if the person making the offer or solicitation is not qualified to do so. The
information in this document does not constitute legal, tax, or investment advice. You must not,
therefore, rely on the content of this document when making any investment decisions.
Issued in EEA by Vanguard Group (Ireland) Limited which is regulated in Ireland by the Central
Bank of Ireland.
Issued in Switzerland by Vanguard Investments Switzerland GmbH.
Issued by Vanguard Asset Management, Limited which is authorised and regulated in the UK by
the Financial Conduct Authority.
© 2021 Vanguard Group (Ireland) Limited. All rights reserved.
© 2021 Vanguard Investments Switzerland GmbH. All rights reserved.
© 2021 Vanguard Asset Management, Limited. All rights reserved.
CFA® is a registered trademark owned by CFA Institute.