SOURCE: vanguard/vanguard_2023.pdf
PAGES: 4

--- PAGE 1 ---
Vanguard economic and market
outlook for 2023: Global summary
The global outlook summary highlights the top-level findings of Vanguard’s full
economic and market outlook, to be distributed in mid-December.
The global economy in 2023: era stimulus. The war in Ukraine continues,
Beating back inflation threatening another surge in energy and food
commodities prices. Effective monetary
In our 2022 economic and market outlook,
policy requires good decision-making, good
we outlined how we believed the removal of
communication and good luck. The current
policy accommodation would shape the
backdrop is missing the good-luck component,
economic and financial market landscape.
posing a challenge for policymakers whose
Policy has in fact driven conditions globally
fiscal and monetary tools are less effective in
in 2022, one of the most rapidly evolving
combating supply shocks.
economic and financial market environments
in history. But one fact has been made
abundantly clear: So long as financial A recession by any other name
markets function as intended, policymakers
Global conditions today and those anticipated
are willing to accept asset price volatility
in the coming months are similar to those
and a deterioration in macroeconomic
that have signalled global recessions in the
fundamentals as a consequence of fighting
past. Energy supply-and-demand concerns,
inflation. The stabilisation of global consumer
diminishing capital flows, declining trade
behaviour, cyclical acceleration in demographic
volumes and falling output per person mean
and geopolitical trends and rapid monetary
that, in all likelihood, the global economy will
tightening suggest a more challenging
enter a recession in the coming year. Although
macroeconomic environment in 2023 that,
central banks generally seek to avoid
in our view, will help bring down the rate
recessions, inflation dynamics mean that
of inflation.
supply-side pressures must continue to ease
and that policymakers must tighten financial
Global inflation: Persistently surprising conditions to lessen the inflationary push
from elevated demand. That said, households,
Inflation has continued to trend higher across
businesses and financial institutions are in a
most economies, in many cases setting
much better position to handle an eventual
multi-decade highs. The action taken, and
downturn, to the extent that drawing recent
likely to be taken in the months ahead, by
historical parallels seems misplaced. Although
central banks reflects a promising effort to
all recessions are painful, this one is unlikely to
combat elevated inflation that has proven
be historic.
more persistent and broad-based. Supply-
demand imbalances linger in many sectors as Our base case is a global recession in 2023
global supply chains have yet to fully recover brought about by the efforts to reduce
from the Covid-19 pandemic and as demand inflation. Whether history views it as mild or
is supported by strong household and significant matters little for those affected by
business balance sheets buoyed by pandemic- the downturn. But failing to act aggressively
For professional investors only (as defined under the MiFID II Directive) investing for their own account
(including management companies (fund of funds) and professional clients investing on behalf of their
discretionary clients). In Switzerland for professional investors only. Not to be distributed to the public.

--- PAGE 2 ---
to combat inflation risks harming households demand, a downtrend in inflation is likely to
and businesses through entrenched inflationary persist throughout 2023. We don’t believe that
pressures that last longer than the pain central banks will achieve their targets of 2%
associated with any one recession. inflation in 2023, but they will maintain those
targets and look to achieve them throughout
As the table below highlights, growth is likely to 2024 and into 2025—or reassess them when the
end 2023 flat or slightly negative in most major time is right. That time isn’t now; reassessing
economies outside of China. Unemployment is inflation targets in a high-inflation environment
likely to rise over the year but nowhere near could have deleterious effects on central bank
as high as during the 2008 and 2020 downturns. credibility and inflation expectations.
Through job losses and slowing consumer
Vanguard’s economic forecasts
GDP growth* Unemployment rate Headline inflation† Monetary policy
2023 2023 2023
Country/ Year-end Year-end Neutral
region Vanguard Consensus Trend Vanguard Consensus NAIRU Vanguard Consensus 2022 2023 rate
US 0.25%–0.5% 0.9% 1.8% 4.4% 4.4% 3.5%–4% 3% 2.4% 4.25% 4.5% 2.5%
Euro area 0% 0.2% 1.2% 7.4% 7.1% 6.5%–7% 5.3% 5.2% 1.75%–2% 2.5% 1.5%
UK –1% to –1.5% –0.5% 1.7% 4.7% 4.4% 3.5%–4% 6.3% 6.5% 3.5% 4.5% 2.5%
China‡ 4.5% 5% 4.3% 4.7% N/A 5% 2.2% 2.3% 2.65% 2.6% 4.5%–5%
* For the US, GDP growth is defined as the year-over-year change in fourth-quarter Gross Domestic Product. For all other countries/regions, it is defined as the
annual change in total GDP in the forecast year compared with the previous year.
† For the US, headline inflation is defined as year-over-year changes in this year’s fourth-quarter Personal Consumption Expenditures (PCE) Price Index compared
with last year. For all other countries/regions, it is defined as the average annual change in headline Consumer Price Index (CPI) inflation in the forecast year
compared with the previous year. Consensus for the US is based on Bloomberg ECFC consensus estimates.
‡ China’s policy rate is the one-year medium-term lending facility (MLF) rate.
Notes: Forecasts are as of 31 October 2022. NAIRU stands for non-accelerating inflation rate of unemployment.
Source: Vanguard.
Global fixed income: Brighter days ahead
The market, which was initially slow to price higher the next decade, compared with the 0.8%-1.8%
interest rates to fight elevated and persistent annual returns we forecast a year ago. For global
inflation, now believes that most central banks will bonds (excluding UK bonds, hedged to GBP), we
have to go well past their neutral policy rates—the expect returns of 4.3%-5.3% per year over the next
rate at which policy would be considered neither decade, compared with our year-ago forecast of
accommodative nor restrictive—to quell inflation. 0.7%-1.7% per year. This means that for investors
The eventual peak and persistence of policy rates, with an adequately long investment horizon, we
which will depend heavily on the path of inflation, expect their wealth to be higher by the end of the
will determine how high bond yields rise. Although decade than our year-ago forecast would have
rising interest rates have created near-term pain suggested. In credit, valuations are attractive, but
for investors, higher starting interest rates have the growing likelihood of recession and declining
raised our return expectations more than twofold profit margins skew the near-term risks toward
for US and international bonds. higher spreads. Although credit exposure can
add volatility, its higher expected return than
For British pound investors, we now expect UK government bonds and low correlation with
aggregate bonds to return 4.7%-5.7% per year over equities validate its inclusion in portfolios.
2

--- PAGE 3 ---
Global equities: Resetting expectations The VCMM projections are based on a statistical
analysis of historical data. Future returns may
Rising interest rates, inflation and geopolitical
behave differently from the historical patterns
risks have forced investors to reassess their rosy
captured in the VCMM. More importantly,
expectations for the future. The silver lining is that
the VCMM may be underestimating extreme
this year’s bear market has improved our outlook
negative scenarios unobserved in the historical
for global equities, though our Vanguard Capital
period on which the model estimation is based.
Markets Model® (VCMM) projections suggest
there are greater opportunities outside the US. The Vanguard Capital Markets Model® is a
proprietary financial simulation tool developed
For UK investors, the VCMM calculates that UK
and maintained by Vanguard’s primary investment
equities are likely to return between 4.6% and
research and advice teams. The model forecasts
6.6% per year over the next decade, and global
distributions of future returns for a wide array of
equities (ex-UK, unhedged) between 6.1% and
broad asset classes. Those asset classes include
8.1%. Within the US market, value stocks are
US and international equity markets, several
fairly valued relative to growth, and small-
maturities of the US Treasury and corporate fixed
capitalisation stocks are attractive despite our
income markets, international fixed income
expectations for weaker near-term growth. Our
markets, US money markets, commodities, and
outlook for the global equity risk premium is still
certain alternative investment strategies. The
positive at 1 to 3 percentage points, but lower
theoretical and empirical foundation for the
than last year due to a faster increase in
Vanguard Capital Markets Model is that the
expected bond returns.
returns of various asset classes reflect the
compensation investors require for bearing
IMPORTANT: The projections and other
different types of systematic risk (beta). At the
information generated by the VCMM regarding
core of the model are estimates of the dynamic
the likelihood of various investment outcomes
statistical relationship between risk factors and
are hypothetical in nature, do not reflect actual
asset returns, obtained from statistical analysis
investment results, and are not guarantees of
based on available monthly financial and economic
future results. Distribution of return outcomes
data from as early as 1960. Using a system of
from VCMM are derived from 10,000 simulations
estimated equations, the model then applies a
for each modeled asset class. Simulations as of
Monte Carlo simulation method to project the
30 September 2022. Results from the model may
estimated interrelationships among risk factors
vary with each use and over time. For more
and asset classes as well as uncertainty and
information, please see the Notes section.
randomness over time. The model generates a
large set of simulated outcomes for each asset
IMPORTANT: The projections and other
class over several time horizons. Forecasts are
information generated by the Vanguard Capital
obtained by computing measures of central
Markets Model regarding the likelihood of various
tendency in these simulations. Results produced
investment outcomes are hypothetical in nature,
by the tool will vary with each use and over time.
do not reflect actual investment results, and are
not guarantees of future results. VCMM results
will vary with each use and over time.
3

--- PAGE 4 ---
Vanguard global economics team
Joseph Davis, Ph.D., Global Chief Economist
Americas Asia-Pacific Capital Markets Model Research Team
Roger A. Aliaga-Díaz, Ph.D., Qian Wang, Ph.D., Qian Wang, Ph.D.,
Chief Economist, Americas Chief Economist, Asia-Pacific Global Head of VCMM
Joshua M. Hirt, CFA Alexis Gray, M.Sc. Kevin DiCiurcio, CFA
Andrew J. Patterson, CFA Daniel Wu, Ph.D.
Europe
Asawari Sathe, M.Sc. Ian Kresnak, CFA
Jumana Saleheen, Ph.D.,
Adam J. Schickling, CFA Chief Economist, Europe Vytautas Maciulis, CFA
Maximilian Wieland Shaan Raithatha, CFA Olga Lepigina, MBA
David Diwik, M.Sc. Roxane Spitznagel, M.Sc. Ben Vavreck, CFA
Lulu Al Ghussein, M.Sc. Lukas Brandl-Cheng, M.Sc.
Alex Qu
Connect with Vanguard®
global.vanguard.com
Investment risk information
The value of investments, and the income from them, may fall or rise and investors may get back less than they invested.
Past performance is not a reliable indicator of future results.
Any projections should be regarded as hypothetical in nature and do not reflect or guarantee future results.
Funds investing in fixed interest securities carry the risk of default on repayment and erosion of the capital value of your investment and the level
of income may fluctuate. Movements in interest rates are likely to affect the capital value of fixed interest securities. Corporate bonds may
provide higher yields but as such may carry greater credit risk increasing the risk of default on repayment and erosion of the capital value of your
investment. The level of income may fluctuate and movements in interest rates are likely to affect the capital value of bonds.
Important information
For professional investors only (as defined under the MiFID II Directive) investing for their own account (including management companies
(fund of funds) and professional clients investing on behalf of their discretionary clients). In Switzerland for professional investors only.
Not to be distributed to the public.
The information contained in this article is not to be regarded as an offer to buy or sell or the solicitation of any offer to buy or sell securities in
any jurisdiction where such an offer or solicitation is against the law, or to anyone to whom it is unlawful to make such an offer or solicitation, or
if the person making the offer or solicitation is not qualified to do so. The information in this article does not constitute legal, tax, or investment
advice. You must not, therefore, rely on the content of this article when making any investment decisions.
Issued in EEA by Vanguard Group (Ireland) Limited which is regulated in Ireland by the Central Bank of Ireland.
Issued in Switzerland by Vanguard Investments Switzerland GmbH.
Issued by Vanguard Asset Management, Limited which is authorised and regulated in the
UK by the Financial Conduct Authority.
© 2022 Vanguard Group (Ireland) Limited. All rights reserved.
© 2022 Vanguard Investments Switzerland GmbH. All rights reserved.
© 2022 Vanguard Asset Management, Limited. All rights reserved.
CFA® is a registered trademark owned by CFA Institute. ISGVEMOG 122022