SOURCE: vanguard/vanguard_2024.pdf
PAGES: 5

--- PAGE 1 ---
Vanguard economic and market
outlook for 2024: Global summary
The global outlook summary highlights the top-level findings of Vanguard’s full
economic and market outlook, to be distributed in mid-December.
Higher interest rates are here to stay. Even entirely counteracted the impact of higher
after policy rates recede from their cyclical policy interest rates. Outside the US, this
peaks, in the decade ahead rates will settle at dynamic is less pronounced. Europe’s
a higher level than we’ve grown accustomed predominantly bank-based economy is
to since the 2008 global financial crisis (GFC). already flirting with recession, and China’s
This development ushers in a return to sound rebound from the end of Covid-19-related
money, and the implications for the global shutdowns has been weaker than expected.
economy and financial markets will be
profound. Borrowing and savings behaviour The US exceptionalism is set to fade in
will reset, capital will be allocated more 2024. We expect monetary policy to become
judiciously and asset class return expectations increasingly restrictive in real terms as
will be recalibrated. Vanguard believes that a inflation falls and offsetting forces wane. The
higher interest rate environment will serve economy will experience a mild downturn as a
investors well in achieving their long-term result. This is necessary to finish the job of
financial goals, but the transition may be returning inflation to target. However, there
bumpy. are risks to this view. A “soft landing,” in which
inflation returns to target without recession,
remains possible, as does a recession that is
Monetary policy will bare further delayed. In Europe, we expect
its teeth in 2024 anaemic growth as restrictive monetary and
fiscal policy lingers, while in China, we expect
The global economy has proven more resilient
additional policy stimulus to sustain economic
than we expected in 2023. This is partly
recovery amid increasing external and
because monetary policy has not been as
structural headwinds.
restrictive as initially thought. Fundamental
changes to the global economy have pushed
up the neutral rate of interest – the rate at Zero rates are yesterday’s news
which policy is neither expansionary nor
Barring an immediate 1990s-style
contractionary. Various other factors have
productivity boom, a recession is likely a
blunted the normal channels of monetary
necessary condition to bring down the rate
policy transmission, including the US fiscal
of inflation, through weakening demand for
impulse from debt-financed pandemic
labour and slower wage growth. As central
support and industrial policies, improved
banks feel more confident in inflation’s path
household and corporate balance sheets
towards targets, we expect they will start to
and tight labour markets that have resulted
cut policy rates in the second half of 2024.
in real wage growth. In the US, our analysis
suggests that these offsets have almost
For professional investors only (as defined under the MiFID II Directive) investing for their own
account (including management companies (fund of funds) and professional clients investing on
behalf of their discretionary clients). In Switzerland for professional investors only. Not to be
distributed to the public.

--- PAGE 2 ---
That said, we expect policy rates to settle at a long-term productivity growth and higher
higher level compared with after the GFC and structural fiscal deficits. This higher interest rate
during the Covid-19 pandemic. Vanguard research environment will last not months, but years. It is a
has found that the equilibrium level of the real structural shift that will endure beyond the next
interest rate, also known as r-star or r*, has business cycle and, in our view, is the single most
increased, driven primarily by demographics, important financial development since the GFC.
Vanguard’s 2024 economic forecasts
GDP growth Unemployment rate Core inflation Monetary policy
2024 2024 2024
Country/ Year-end Year-end Neutral
region Vanguard Consensus Trend Vanguard Consensus NAIRU Vanguard Consensus 2023 2024 rate
US 0.5% 0.8% 1.8% 4.8% 4.4% 3.5%–4% 2.5% 2.5% 5.5%–5.75% 4%–4.5% 3%–3.5%
Euro area 0.5%–1% 0.8% 1.2% 7%–7.5% 6.8% 6.5%–7% 2.1% 2.5% 4% 3.25% 2%–2.5%
UK 0.5%–1% 0.4% 1% 4.5%–5% 4.8% 3.5%–4% 2.8% N/A 5.25% 4.25% 3%–3.5%
China 4.5%–5% 4.5% 4.1% 4.8% 5% 5% 1%–1.5% N/A 2.3%–2.4% 2.2% 4.5%–5%
Notes: Forecasts are as of 14 November 2023. For the US, GDP growth is defined as the year-over-year change in fourth-quarter GDP. For all other countries/
regions, GDP growth is defined as the annual change in GDP in the forecast year compared with the previous year. Unemployment forecasts are the average for
the fourth quarter of 2024. NAIRU is the non-accelerating inflation rate of unemployment, a measure of labour market equilibrium. Core inflation excludes volatile
food and energy prices. For the US, euro area and UK, core inflation is defined as the year-over-year change in the fourth quarter compared with the previous
year. For China, core inflation is defined as the average annual change compared with the previous year. For the US, core inflation is based on the core Personal
Consumption Expenditures Index. For all other countries/regions, core inflation is based on the core Consumer Price Index. The neutral rate is the equilibrium policy
rate at which no easing or tightening pressures are being placed upon an economy or its financial markets.
Source: Vanguard.
A return to sound money Bonds are back
For households and businesses, higher interest Global bond markets have repriced significantly
rates will limit borrowing, increase the cost of over the last two years because of the transition
capital and encourage saving. For governments, to the new era of higher rates. In our view, bond
higher rates will force a reassessment of fiscal valuations are now close to fair, with higher
outlooks sooner rather than later. The vicious long-term rates more aligned with secularly higher
circle of rising deficits and higher interest rates neutral rates. Meanwhile, term premia have
will accelerate concerns about fiscal sustainability. increased as well, driven by elevated inflation and
Vanguard’s research suggests the window for fiscal and monetary outlook uncertainty.
governments to act on this is closing fast – it is
an issue that must be tackled by this generation, Despite the potential for near-term volatility,
not the next. we believe this rise in interest rates is the single
best economic and financial development in
For well-diversified investors, the permanence 20 years for long-term investors. Our bond
of higher real interest rates is a welcome return expectations have increased substantially.
development. It provides a solid foundation for We now expect euro area bonds to return a
long-term risk-adjusted returns. However, as the nominal annualised 2.9%–3.9% over the next
transition to higher rates is not yet complete, decade, compared with the -0.5%–0.5%
near-term financial market volatility is likely to annualised returns we expected before the
remain elevated. rate-hiking cycle began. Similarly, for hedged
global ex-euro area bonds, we expect annualised
returns of 2.8%–3.8% over the next decade,
compared with a forecast of -0.5%–0.5% when
policy rates were low or, in some cases, negative.
2

--- PAGE 3 ---
If reinvested, the income component of bond returns of 5.0%–7.0% for non-US developed
returns at this level of rates will eventually more markets, 4.3%–6.3% for euro-area equities and
than offset the capital losses experienced over 4.6%–6.6% for emerging markets, all from the
the last two years. By the end of the decade, perspective of a euro area investor.
bond portfolio values are expected to be higher
than if rates had not increased in the first place. The global equity risk premium that emerges
from current stock and bond market valuations is
Similarly, the case for the 60/40 portfolio1 is the lowest since the 1999–2009 “lost decade.” The
stronger than in recent memory. Long-term spread between global equity and global bond
investors in balanced portfolios have seen a returns is expected to be 0 to 2 percentage points
dramatic rise in the probability of achieving annualised over the next 10 years. In contrast to
a 10-year annualised return of at least 5%, from the last decade, we expect return outcomes for
close to a 0% likelihood in 2021 to 44% today. diversified investors to be more balanced. For
those with an appropriate risk tolerance, a more
Moving up the risk spectrum, credit valuations defensive risk posture may be appropriate given
appear fair in the investment-grade space but higher expected fixed income returns and an
relatively rich in high-yield. What’s more, the equity market that is yet to fully reflect the
growing likelihood of recession and declining implications of the return to sound money.
profit margins skew the risks towards wider
spreads. IMPORTANT: The projections and other
information generated by the Vanguard Capital
Markets Model® (VCMM) regarding the likelihood
Higher rates leave equities overvalued of various investment outcomes are hypothetical
in nature, do not reflect actual investment results
A higher-rate environment depresses asset price
and are not guarantees of future results.
valuations across global markets while squeezing
Distribution of return outcomes from VCMM are
profit margins as corporations find it more
derived from 10,000 simulations for each
expensive to issue and refinance debt.
modelled asset class. Simulations as of
30 September 2023. Results from the model
Valuations are most stretched in the US. As
may vary with each use and over time. For more
a result, we have downgraded our US equity
information, please see the Notes section.
return expectations for euro area investors to an
annualised 2.4%–4.4% over the next 10 years
from 3.1%–5.1% heading into 2023. Within the US
Notes:
market, value stocks are more attractive than
they have been since late 2021, and small- The VCMM projections are based on a statistical
capitalisation stocks also appear attractive for analysis of historical data. Future returns may
the long term. behave differently from the historical patterns
captured in the VCMM. More importantly, the
US equities have continued to outperform VCMM may be underestimating extreme
their international peers. The key drivers of this negative scenarios unobserved in the historical
performance gap over the last two years have period on which the model estimation is based.
been valuation expansion and US dollar strength
beyond our fair-value estimates, both of which The VCMM is a proprietary financial simulation
are likely to reverse. Indeed, our Vanguard Capital tool developed and maintained by Vanguard’s
Markets Model® (VCMM) projections suggest an primary investment research and advice teams.
increasing likelihood of greater opportunities The model forecasts distributions of future
outside the US. We project 10-year annualised returns for a wide array of broad asset classes.
1 In our analysis, the 60% equity/40% fixed income portfolio is represented by the following indices: Equity: MSCI AC World Total Return Index. Fixed income: Bloomberg Global
Aggregate Bond Index Euro Hedged.
3

--- PAGE 4 ---
Those asset classes include US and international based on available monthly financial and
equity markets, several maturities of the US economic data from as early as 1960. Using a
Treasury and corporate fixed income markets, system of estimated equations, the model then
international fixed income markets, US money applies a Monte Carlo simulation method to
markets, commodities and certain alternative project the estimated interrelationships among
investment strategies. The theoretical and risk factors and asset classes as well as
empirical foundation for the VCMM is that the uncertainty and randomness over time. The
returns of various asset classes reflect the model generates a large set of simulated
compensation investors require for bearing outcomes for each asset class over several time
different types of systematic risk (beta). At the horizons. Forecasts are obtained by computing
core of the model are estimates of the dynamic measures of central tendency in these
statistical relationship between risk factors and simulations. Results produced by the tool will
asset returns, obtained from statistical analysis vary with each use and over time.
Vanguard global economics team
Joseph Davis, Ph.D., Global Chief Economist
Americas Asia-Pacific Capital Markets Model Research Team
Roger A. Aliaga-Díaz, Ph.D., Qian Wang, Ph.D., Qian Wang, Ph.D.,
Chief Economist, Americas, Chief Economist, Asia-Pacific Global Head of VCMM
Global Head of Portfolio Construction Carole Okigbo, Kevin DiCiurcio, CFA,
Andrew Patterson, CFA, Senior Head of ISG, Asia-Pacific VCMM Senior Investment Strategist
International Economist Alexis Gray, M.Sc. Daniel Wu, Ph.D.
Joshua Hirt, CFA Grant Feng, Ph.D. Olga Lepigina, MBA
Asawari Sathe, M.Sc. Ian Kresnak, CFA
Europe
Adam Schickling, CFA Lukas Brandl-Cheng, M.Sc.
Jumana Saleheen, Ph.D.,
Vytautas Maciulis, CFA Chief Economist, Europe Ryan Zalla, Ph.D
Rhea Thomas Shaan Raithatha, CFA Alex Qu
Maria Fernanda Estrada Josefina Rodriguez, M.Sc. Ben Vavreck, CFA
Ranieri Arcella, M.Phil. Taylor Regensburger
4

--- PAGE 5 ---
Connect with Vanguard®
global.vanguard.com
Investment risk information
The value of investments, and the income from them, may fall or rise and investors may get back less than they invested.
Past performance is not a reliable indicator of future results.
Any projections should be regarded as hypothetical in nature and do not reflect or guarantee future results.
Funds investing in fixed interest securities carry the risk of default on repayment and erosion of the capital value of your
investment and the level of income may fluctuate. Movements in interest rates are likely to affect the capital value of fixed
interest securities. Corporate bonds may provide higher yields but as such may carry greater credit risk increasing the risk of
default on repayment and erosion of the capital value of your investment. The level of income may fluctuate and movements in
interest rates are likely to affect the capital value of bonds.
Important information
For professional investors only (as defined under the MiFID II Directive) investing for their own account (including management
companies (fund of funds) and professional clients investing on behalf of their discretionary clients). In Switzerland for
professional investors only. Not to be distributed to the public.
The information contained in this document is not to be regarded as an offer to buy or sell or the solicitation of any offer to buy
or sell securities in any jurisdiction where such an offer or solicitation is against the law, or to anyone to whom it is unlawful to
make such an offer or solicitation, or if the person making the offer or solicitation is not qualified to do so. The information in this
document does not constitute legal, tax, or investment advice. You must not, therefore, rely on the content of this document
when making any investment decisions.
The information contained in this document is for educational purposes only and is not a recommendation or solicitation to buy
or sell investments.
Issued in EEA by Vanguard Group (Ireland) Limited which is regulated in Ireland by the Central Bank of Ireland.
Issued in Switzerland by Vanguard Investments Switzerland GmbH.
Issued by Vanguard Asset Management, Limited which is authorised and regulated in the UK
by the Financial Conduct Authority.
© 2023 Vanguard Group (Ireland) Limited. All rights reserved.
© 2023 Vanguard Investments Switzerland GmbH. All rights reserved.
© 2023 Vanguard Asset Management, Limited. All rights reserved.
CFA® is a registered trademark owned by CFA Institute. ISGVEMOG 122023